
## Native Sybase Connector for WINDEV and WEBDEV
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000130"></a>
WINDEV and WEBDEV propose an optional Native Connector to Sybase (also called Native Access to Sybase). This Native Connector allows you to access a Sybase database from a WLanguage program without using any external driver.

This version is also used to:

- Run the same query several times.

- Retrieve the exit value of a stored procedure run on the server




These features are available from version 12.5 of Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE).

**Caution**: This version of the Native Sybase Connector works with WINDEV 28 and/or WEBDEV 28.





<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTTEXTE000154"></a>


### Conditions for using Native Sybase Connector
<a name="conditions_for_using_native_sybase_connector_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

- Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) version 10 or later (version 12.5 to retrieve the result of a stored procedure).

- Sybase client layer installed.

- The ***LIBSYBDB.DLL*** DLL must be accessible:

	- from the development computer.

	- from the deployment computer.






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### The necessary files
<a name="the_necessary_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000044"></a>

The following files are required to use Native Sybase Connector:

- the ***LIBSYBDB.DLL*** DLL. This DLL is installed by the client layer of Sybase. See the license agreement of Sybase for more details about the distribution conditions of this DLL.

- ***wd280syb.dll***: Required for the Native Connector to a Sybase database. This file is provided with the Native WINDEV/WEBDEV Connector for Sybase.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000184"></a>


### Using the Native Sybase Connector in your WINDEV applications and WEBDEV sites
<a name="using_the_native_sybase_connector_your_windev_applications_and_webdev_sites_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

To use Sybase in native mode, you must program:

- with the "SQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with SQL functions](../WDSybase/5516001.md)).

- with the "HFSQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with HFSQL functions](../WDSybase/5516006.md)).




**Remarks**: 

- Don't forget to read the [limitations regarding the use of Native Sybase Connector](../WDSybase/5516004.md).

- The option "Automatically create the data files when they are opened" ("Files" tab of the project description) is taken into account by the Native SQL Sybase Connector. 





