
## Procedure/Function
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>
A **procedure** is used to associate an identifier with a statement block. Then, the procedure can be called in a process.

A **function** is used to define a sub-program that performs several statements before returning a value to the calling program.

Difference between a procedure and a function:

- A **procedure** returns no result.

- A **function** returns a result.




In WLanguage, there is no distinction between the procedures and the functions. The procedures and the functions are managed in the same way. A procedure, like a function, may (or may not) return a result.

The procedures and the functions can have a fixed or variable number of parameters.

The declaration syntax is the same for the procedures and for the functions. For more details, see [the declaration of a procedure or function](../Motscles/1513008.md).

You have the ability to create overloaded procedures. For more details, see [Prototype overload](../Motscles/1514063.md).

The calling syntax is the same for the procedures and for the functions. For more details, see [the call to a procedure or function](../Motscles/1513007.md).

A procedure (or a function) can be global or local. For more details, see [the global and local procedures and functions](../Motscles/1513005.md).



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Procedure and function: local or global
<a name="procedure_and_function_local_global_ELTTEXTE000175"></a>
Two types of procedures are available:

- ***[Global procedure](../Motscles/1513005.md)***: can be used in all the project processes. This global procedure is stored in the project.

- ***[Local procedure](../Motscles/1513009.md)***: can be used in all processes related to the object (window or report) where this procedure was declared. This local procedure is stored in the object.




**Important**: You must not declare two procedures with the same name (especially a global procedure and a local procedure).

Remark: You have the ability to use internal procedures in WLanguage. For more details, see [Internal procedure](../Motscles/1514075.md). 


