
## Currencies
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## The currency type
<a name="the_currency_type_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>
A **currency** is a real coded on 10 bytes.

A **currency** can contain up to 23 significant digits (17 for the integer part and 6 for the decimal part) and it can take a value included between -604 462 909 807 314 587, 353 087 and +604 462 909 807 314 587, 353 087.

The **currency** type is recommended to avoid the rounding errors caused by the binary coding of reals.

**Remarks**:

- For greater precision, it is recommended to use [numerics](../Motscles/1514072.md) (38 significant digits).

- For other calculations, it is recommended to use [reals](../Motscles/1514048.md).






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000201"></a>


### Default value
<a name="default_value_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

A "Currency" variable that is declared but not initialized is equal to 0.

**To force the assignment of a currency**, use **0m** in front of the value. For example:


```wl
num1 is currency
num1 = 0m12345678901234567891234567
Trace(num1)
```

<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Binary coding of reals
<a name="binary_coding_reals_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

All [reals](../Motscles/1514048.md) have the same number of significant digits (15).

If the result of a calculation performed on [reals](../Motscles/1514048.md) involves more than 15 significant digits, this result will be automatically rounded to 15 significant digits. The precision of the result will be less than the precision of a calculation performed with the **currency** type.

[numerics](../Motscles/1514072.md) provide even greater precision (32 digits for the integer part and 6 digits for the decimal part).




<a name="NOTE0_9"></a>


### Thousand separator
<a name="thousand_separator_ELTPARAGRAPHE000104"></a>

You can use spaces and underscore characters to separate thousands in numbers. For example: 

```wl
num1 is currency
num1 = 123 456.478

num2 is currency
num2 = 568_014.478
```





<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Calculations on currencies
<a name="calculations_currencies_ELTPARAGRAPHE000114"></a>

All the calculations that use at least one **currency** will be performed in **currency** format. For a more precise result, all the operands will be automatically converted to **currency**.

For example, when a real is multiplied by a currency, the calculation is performed using the currency type.

Remark: For greater precision, it is recommended to use the [Numeric type](../Motscles/1514072.md) to perform calculations.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### External language
<a name="external_language_ELTPARAGRAPHE000128"></a>

The **currency** type is not available in external language.


