
## Native Informix Connector: Specific features and remarks
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Necessary version
<a name="necessary_version_ELTTEXTE000218"></a>


### Required version of WINDEV/WEBDEV
<a name="required_version_windevwebdev_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

**Caution**: This version of the Native Informix Connector works with WINDEV and WEBDEV 28.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Main remarks
<a name="main_remarks_ELTTEXTE000242"></a>


### Unicode items
<a name="unicode_items_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

The Unicode items are not supported by Native Informix Connector. We advise you to use text items in Ansi format and to perform the conversion (if necessary) with [UnicodeToAnsi](../WDLang1/3024025.md).

[HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) will display an error message when creating files containing items in Unicode format.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuration
<a name="configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

In the parameters for configuring the Informix client layer, the "DELIMIDENT" parameter should be set to "YES".

This setting is required if the names of the tables (or table columns) contain accented characters ("ProductsOrdered" for example.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Searches, filters and queries
<a name="searches_filters_and_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

No search can be performed and no filter can be defined on an item used in the HAVING clause (**HReadSeekxx** and [HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md)).

Indeed, with Informix, an item cannot be used both in the HAVING clause and in the WHERE clause.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>




### Managing the dates, times and datetime
<a name="managing_the_dates_times_and_datetime_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

The following functions are used by Native Informix Connector to format the values of date, time and datetime types in the requests sent to the server:

- Date: MDY(MM,DD,YYYY)

- Time: DATETIME(HH:MM) HOUR TO MINUTE

- Datetime: DATETIME(YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.ccm) YEAR TO FRACTION




**Special case for the Informix servers version 7.23 or earlier**
The MDY functions is not supported by these servers. To avoid this limit, Native Informix Connector can exchange the dates as character strings in Y4MD format. In this case, you must define on the client computer the environment variable DBDATE to Y4MD with Setnet32.

**Remark**: If Native Informix Connector detects that the client version is equal to 7.23 (or earlier), it checks in the registry whether the DBDATE string value is defined to Y4MD at the following location if the DEFAULT_USER_SETTING value is defined to CU:


```txt
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Informix\Environment
```


otherwise, at the following location:


```txt
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Informix\Environment
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Specific features of Native Informix Connector
<a name="specific_features_native_informix_connector_ELTTEXTE000284"></a>


### Options of the analysis
<a name="options_the_analysis_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

- The analysis options regarding the full-text indexes are not supported by the Native Connector.

- The analysis options regarding the partial indexing of text memos are not supported by the Native Connector.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Identical records
<a name="identical_records_ELTPARAGRAPHE000091"></a>

The Native Informix Connector cannot differentiate between two identical records (which means with identical values for all items, excluding memo items).

When a record is modified or deleted, all the identical records will be modified or deleted.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Forcing the automatic identifier
<a name="forcing_the_automatic_identifier_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

The *hForceIDAuto* constant cannot be used with [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md). This constant can only be used with [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md). 
<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### INSERT queries and automatic identifier
<a name="insert_queries_and_automatic_identifier_ELTPARAGRAPHE000113"></a>

The automatic identifiers are not supported by the INSERT queries (created through programming or in the query editor). To use an automatic identifier, call [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md) on the table.
<a name="NOTE3_5"></a>


### Locks
<a name="locks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>

The locks CANNOT be used with the HFSQL functions in this version.
<a name="NOTE3_6"></a>


### Unsupported types
<a name="unsupported_types_ELTPARAGRAPHE000130"></a>

The ROW, MULTISET and LIST items are not supported by the Native Informix Connector.
<a name="NOTE3_7"></a>


### Restoring memos
<a name="restoring_memos_ELTPARAGRAPHE000137"></a>

The memos are not restored when [HRestorePosition](../WDLang4/3044137.md) is used in the queries and in the reports.

**Consequence**: In a Table control based on a query, the memos no longer appear: 

- when clicking a row of the Table control, 

- when moving the scrollbar in the Table control.



<a name="NOTE3_8"></a>


### Links
<a name="links_ELTPARAGRAPHE000152"></a>

- [HListLink](../WDLang4/3044138.md) is not supported in this version.

- The links between tables are not supported in this version.



<a name="NOTE3_9"></a>


### Alias and accented characters
<a name="alias_and_accented_characters_ELTPARAGRAPHE000162"></a>

In this version, the aliases (for names of tables and/or table columns) that contain an accented character are not supported.
<a name="NOTE3_10"></a>


### Generic search
<a name="generic_search_ELTPARAGRAPHE000169"></a>

A generic search performed on a character string that contains the "\*" character may fail. A "General Error" is displayed by the Informix driver.


