


## User Groupware and files accessed via a Native Connector
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000104"></a>
An application that works with the User Groupware can be used with a database handled by a Native Connector (also called 'Native Access').

To integrate a Native Connector into an application that uses the User Groupware, the latter must be configured to use the data files on the server. This help page shows how to do it.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000128"></a>
To use the User Groupware files with a Native Connector: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "User Groupware". 

2. In the description window of the current project configuration, in "User Groupware: Disabled", click "Change". 

3. In the window that appears, enable the User Groupware.

4. In the "General" tab, select: 

	- Standard User Groupware. 

	- Manual start (programmatically). 
			The User Groupware must not use the "Automatic start" mode in your application.




5. Select the different options of the User Groupware, and then validate the window. 
	For more details on the available options, see [User Groupware: Options and settings](../Editeurs/1000021153.md)

6. In the initialization code of the project, use [gpwOpenConnection](../WDLang6/3041007.md) to define the connection to the database handled by a Native Connector.  
	**Caution**: the passwords of the User Groupware data files are not taken into account.

7. Use [gpwOpen](../WDLang6/3041002.md) without specifying the path of the data files. The concept of directory does not exist in this case.





