


## Developing applications for iPhone/iPad
			





## Prerequisite
<a name="prerequisite_ELTTEXTE000108"></a>
To develop a WINDEV Mobile application for iPhone/iPad, you need: 

- 1 PC 

- 1 Mac

- 1 iPhone and/or iPad (optional)


**Why a PC?**
WINDEV Mobile 28 is a Windows-only application. 
The iOS application will be created, developed and optimized on the PC. 
**Tip**: You don't need a PC. You can install a virtualization software such as "Parallels Desktop" on a Mac to run Windows on Mac. In this case, WINDEV Mobile can be run on Mac. 

**So why a Mac?**
Once development is completed, you will need to compile the application on a Mac using Xcode 13 or later.

**Where do I get Xcode?**
To install Xcode, all you need is an iTunes account (and thus an Apple ID). Xcode can be downloaded for free from the Mac App Store (at the time of writing this document). 

Remark: You can enroll in the **iOS and Mac Developer Program** as developer of Mac, iPhone and iPad applications. You must subscribe to deploy your applications. This allows you to download a version of Xcode. Xcode is free to download (at the time of writing this document).

Web site: [http://developer.apple.com/xcode/](http://developer.apple.com/xcode/)



## Steps to create an iPhone/iPad application
<a name="steps_create_iphoneipad_application_ELTTEXTE000132"></a>
These are the steps to develop an application intended to run on iOS iPhone/iPad: 

- [Creating the project in WINDEV Mobile](../Editeurs/1000019818.md).

- [Compiling the application in Xcode on a Mac for iOS](../Editeurs/1000019878.md).

- [Deploying the application](../Editeurs/1000019864.md).




**Remark**: The minimum required configuration is as follows: 

- Hardware: iPhone 6, iPad Air,

- System: iOS version 11 or later





