


## Software Factory: Administrator options
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
Several options can be configured in the Software Factory administrator: 

- Authentication

- Coordinator

- Robots




To configure these options: 

1. Start the Software Factory administrator: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDFAdmin".

2. In the window that is displayed, specify the name of the coordinator to which the administrator must connect. 

3. The Software Factory administrator starts. 

4. Click the "Options" tab to configure the Software Factory administrator. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Authentication - Parameters of Control Centers
<a name="authentication_parameters_control_centers_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
The authentication parameters are used to define the database for the accounts used by the Software Factory. The Software Factory uses the accounts of the Control Centers. You must specify the options for connecting to this database. This database can be: 

- a database in shared mode. Simply specify the share directory containing the data files of the Control Center database. 

- an HFSQL Client/Server database. All you have to do is specify the server and its port as well as the database used. 
	Remark: the "Test" button is used to check the specified parameters . 

- a Cloud platform. All you have to do is specify the name of the platform used. 
	Remark: You have the ability to directly create a Cloud platform if necessary.




The option "Request password at startup" is used to force the user authentication when the Software Factory administrator starts. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Coordinator
<a name="coordinator_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>
Configuring the coordinator allows you to: 

- Choose the coordinator.

- Define the coordinator options ("Coordinator options" link). 




The coordinator options affect: 

- The database of Control Centers used to store the action plans and store their status reports. 

- The setting of the history of results. You can define the number of results stored for each action plan. 

- The setting of the method for sending the status reports of action plans (internal messaging of Control Centers, email, etc.). 

- The setting of recipients in case of robot failure. 




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Robots
<a name="robots_ELTTEXTE000211"></a>
The following options affect the robots: 

- **Modify the priority order of robots**: When several computers are available, you have the ability to select a specific computer to run the action plans (the fastest computer for example). 
	Reminder: You can to add robots in the "Robots" tab of the Software Factory administrator.

- **Management of "Do not show again" dialog boxes**: This option allows you to re-enable the dialog boxes previously disabled (by checking the "Do not show again" box for example).  





