


## Specific features of the applications for iPhone/iPad
			



<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000367"></a>
The method for developing applications for iPhone/iPad differs from the method for developing applications with WINDEV Mobile in the following areas:

- [Available project elements](#NOTE1_1).

- [Available controls](#NOTE1_2).

- [Databases](#NOTE2_1).

- [Modal windows](#NOTE4_1).

- [Loopers](#NOTE8_1).

- [Automatic scrollbars in the windows](#NOTE9_1).

- [Running the project code](#NOTE10_1).

- [Managing character strings](#NOTE11_1). 

- [Managing directories](#NOTE12_1).

- [Changing the screen orientation](#NOTE13_1).

- [Typing Objective C code](../Editeurs/1000019887.md).






## Available project elements
<a name="available_project_elements_ELTTEXTE000391"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
The following project elements are available for iPhone/iPad development:

- Windows. A [window wizard](../WDChamp/9000133.md) is used to create specific windows for iOS. 

- Queries.

- Classes.

- Sets of procedures.

- Window templates.

- Control templates.

- Reports and report templates.

- Internal windows.




The following elements are not available for iPhone/iPad development:

- Components.



<a name="NOTE1_2"></a>


### Available controls
<a name="available_controls_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

The following controls are available for the iPhone/iPad development:

- [Button control](../WDChamp/1013076.md).

- [Image control](../WDChamp/1013218.md).

- [Check Box control](../WDChamp/1013151.md).

- [Static control](../WDChamp/1013179.md).

- [Edit control](../WDChamp/1013145.md).

- [Radio Button control](../WDChamp/1013228.md).

- [Chart control](../WDChamp/1013006.md).

- [Looper control](../WDChamp/1013099.md).

- [Multiline Zone control](../WDChamp/1000024001.md).

- [HTML control](../WDChamp/1013105.md).

- [Calendar control](../WDChamp/1016300.md).

- [Map control](../WDChamp/1000019755.md).

- [Multimedia control](../WDChamp/9500200.md).

- [Combo Box control](../WDChamp/1013023.md).

- [Progress Bar control](../WDChamp/1013156.md).

- [Tab control](../WDChamp/1013194.md).

- [Slider control](../WDChamp/1013241.md).

- [Rating control](../WDChamp/1000019736.md).

- [Table control](../WDChamp/1013224.md).




- [Kanban control](../WDChamp/1410087203.md).

- [Image Editor control](../WDChamp/1410087209.md).




Remarks: 

- No accented character should be used in the project name. 

- To insert images and icons into your iPhone/iPad applications, the image catalog proposes specific images. All you have to do is select the "iOS" theme during your search. Your interface will use the standard images available for the iPhone/iPad applications. 

- Managing images according to the DPI: The images can be bit-mapped or blurred according to the DPI of the device. You can use the automatic DPI management. For more details, see [Android/iOS: Providing an image per DPI](../WDChamp/9500137.md).




<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Databases
<a name="databases_ELTTEXTE000421"></a>
The databases of applications for iPhone/iPad must be in **HFSQL Classic** or **HFSQL Client/Server** format.

The main Hxxx commands are available. The queries are also available.
For a database in HFSQL Client/Server format, the data files of the iPhone/iPad application can be shared with other applications (other than iPhone/iPad applications).

Remarks: 

- No accented characters should be used in the names of HFSQL data files. 

- An automatic data modification can be performed while an application is updated. To propagate the changes made in the analysis on data files deployed on the iPhone or iPad, simply use [HModifyStructure](../WDLang4/1000019439.md) (for example, in the project initialization code). 




<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Modal windows
<a name="modal_windows_ELTTEXTE000451"></a>
The modal widows are not supported by the iOS operating system. [Open up](../WDLang1/3038035.md) is not allowed.
The windows can be opened: 

- by the [OpenChild](../WDLang1/3038021.md) function, 

- by the [OpenMobileWindow](../WDLang1/1000021018.md) function.




To pass a return value: 

- When it is closed, a child or sibling window can call a local procedure of the window that opened it in order to pass a return value to it. A return value can also be returned via a global variable.

- You can specify the return value via the [ReturnedValue](../Proprietes/2510134.md) property of the child window, and retrieve this value via the "Close a child window of the window" event of the parent window. 




<a name="NOTE8_1"></a>


## Loopers
<a name="loopers_ELTTEXTE000475"></a>
In iPhone/iPad applications, Looper controls can be in edit mode.

**Remark**: **The Looper controls can be used to replace the Table controls in an iPhone application**. The Table controls are not used on the iPhone for the following reasons: 

- The interface of Table controls is not suitable. 

- Problem regarding the space in the windows: the columns and the column headers would not be displayed. 

- The row height would be too small to interact with it by touch. 

- The Table controls are not used in the interface standard of this system. 


From version 20, Table controls are available in iPhone/iPad applications.

<a name="NOTE9_1"></a>


## Automatic scrollbars in the windows
<a name="automatic_scrollbars_the_windows_ELTTEXTE000499"></a>
If the size of a window exceeds the size of the screen and if "Automatic scrollbars" is checked in the window description, a scrollbar is automatically added to the right of window. Its presence must be taken into account when designing the window in order for this scrollbar not to overlay the controls.

<a name="NOTE10_1"></a>


## Project code execution
<a name="project_code_execution_ELTTEXTE000523"></a>
The maximum duration for running the project code must not exceed 10 seconds. Which means that if the code exceeds this duration, the application is not loaded.
Furthermore, if [OpenMobileWindow](../WDLang1/1000021018.md) (or [OpenChild](../WDLang1/3038021.md)) is run in the project code in the middle of other lines of code, all the lines are run first, then the window is opened.

<a name="NOTE11_1"></a>


## String management
<a name="string_management_ELTTEXTE000547"></a>
When developing a project for iPhone/iPad, the iOS system uses character strings in Unicode format. 

By default, in the following declaration: 


```wl
MaChaîne est une chaîne
```
The MyString variable is automatically considered as being a Unicode string. 

To specify that a character string is in Ansi format, you must use the following declaration: 


```wl
MaChaîne est une chaîne Ansi
```


<a name="NOTE12_1"></a>


## Directory management
<a name="directory_management_ELTTEXTE000571"></a>
The management of directories in the iPhone/iPad applications presents these specific features: 

- By default, the current directory of an application corresponds to the "Documents" sub-directory that is automatically created in the setup directory of the application. 

- The relative paths handled by the application are relative to this directory. 

- The full path of current directory is returned by [fCurrentDir](../WDLang1/3036022.md). By default, you have the ability to read and write in this directory. 

- The current directory can be modified by [fCurrentDir](../WDLang1/3036022.md). 

- The runtime directory (returned by [fExeDir](../WDLang1/3036049.md)) corresponds to the root directory of the application. 




For more details on the management of application directories, see [Summary table: Managing directories according to the platform](../WDLang1/1000020167.md). 

<a name="NOTE13_1"></a>


## Changing the screen orientation
<a name="changing_the_screen_orientation_ELTTEXTE000595"></a>
Three orientation modes are available for the windows ("Details" tab of the window description): 

- Free: the window follows the orientation.

- Locked in Portrait mode.

- Locked in Landscape mode.




If the window follows the orientation, you must uncheck the "Automatic scrollbars" option ( "Details" tab of the window description). 

To detect if the screen orientation has changed, use the "Changing the orientation" event in the windows. 


