
## Software Factory
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000092"></a>
The concept of software factory is used to automate the process for creating applications. 

The compilation of the source code is handed over to a robot on a build machine. 

The report produced by the robot enables the project manager to find out the stability level of the project, and the programmers to immediately correct potential compilation errors, in reduced time frames. 

The robot can also run the audits and the automated tests. 

The purpose of the software factory is also to automate all the manual tasks up to the process for creating the application setup. 

Once the finished product is obtained, the software factory is used to automate the cleaning, the organization and the backup of the application elements. 

For more details, see [Principle and implementation of the software factory](../Editeurs/1000019568.md). 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Continuous integration
<a name="continuous_integration_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
The continuous integration is a new feature proposed by the software factory. 

The continuous integration is a set of practices that consist in checking that, for each modification made to the source code, there is no regression in the application currently developed. 

This check is performed almost in real time, each night in most cases. Every evening, each developer checks back in the modifications made during the day. 

An action plan is defined and programmed to start every night and on all the projects: 

- the retrieval of all the SCM elements, 

- the retrieval of all external components, 

- the generation of all the executables, components, ...

- running some tests, ...




The robots return some status reports used to find out the status of the product version. 


