


## Software factory: Setup
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>
To use the software factory, a coordinator must be installed on a computer as well as the different robots that will perform the tasks found in the action plans. 

3 modules are required: 

- The management module. This module is accessible from WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile on the development computer: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDFAdmin".

- The coordinator. The coordinator must be installed on a single computer. The coordinator stores the action plans, distribute their execution and stores the status reports.

- The robots. The robots run the action plans. They must be installed on computers dedicated to the execution of action plans.




**Caution**:

- The WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile products required by the action plans must be installed on each robot computer and a dongle must be present.

- We advise you to create a Windows account dedicated to the execution of action plans on the robot computers. This account will be used to: 

	- start the setup of the robot.

	- accept to start the robot when Windows is started and to configure Windows in "auto logon" mode.




- We advise you not to disable the UAC on these robot computers. 

- A software factory must not be installed in a non-interactive TSE session because the tests will systematically be in error. The software factory must be started in a TSE session opened in interactive mode. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Setup
<a name="setup_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>


### Installing the coordinator and the different robots of the software factory
<a name="installing_the_coordinator_and_the_different_robots_the_software_factory_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

To install the coordinator and the different robots of the software factory: 

1. Start the setup program WXxx0PACKFABRIQUE.exe. This setup program is located in the "\\Install\\Factory" subdirectory of the product used. The setup wizard starts. 

2. Go to the next plane. You can: 

	- Install the coordinator on the current computer. 

	- Install a robot on the current computer. 

	- Uninstall the coordinator or a robot. 








### Install the coordinator
<a name="install_the_coordinator_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

To install the coordinator:

1. In the wizard, specify the setup directory of the coordinator. Go to the next step. 

2. Specify the parameters regarding: 

	- **the Control Centers**: The database of Control Centers is used to: 

		- identify the user of the coordinator (login and password of the user)
						Select the type of database used for the Control Centers. You can choose not to manage the authentication to the coordinator. 

		- send status reports into the messaging of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile (WDBal application). 
						Depending on the type of database, specify the necessary parameters. 




- the logs. Indicate the number of results kept in the history. 

- the sending of status reports. The messages can be sent: 

	- via the internal messaging of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. All you have to do is specify the name and password of the sender. 

	- via an email. You must specify the characteristics of the SMTP server and the characteristics of the sender. 

3. The setup of the coordinator is automatically performed. You now have the ability to install a robot. 





### Installing a robot
<a name="installing_robot_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

To install a robot:

1. In the wizard, specify: 

	- the setup directory of the robot. 

	- the name of the computer on which the coordinator of the software factory is installed. 

	- the name of a contributor of the Control Centers (and his password). This information is optional if you are not using the Control Centers. 




2. The setup of the robot is completed. 

3. Configure (if necessary) the automatic startup of the robot. 





