


## User Groupware and Client/Server data files
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
An application that uses the User Groupware can be used with an HFSQL database in Client/Server mode.

In order for an application that uses the User Groupware to run in Client/Server mode, you must:

- convert the existing application to Client/Server. For more details, see [Client/Server](../WDLang4/3044306.md).

- configure the User Groupware in order to use the data files on the server. This help page shows how to do it.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000161"></a>


### Automatic mode
<a name="automatic_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

To convert the data files of the User Groupware to Client/Server: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "User Groupware". 

2. In the description window of the current project configuration, in "User Groupware: Disabled", click "Change". 

3. In the window that appears, enable the User Groupware.

4. Select the "Standard User Groupware". 

5. In the "Files" tab, select "HFSQL Client/Server".

6. Select "Click here to enter the server parameters". Specify:

	- the server name.

	- the port number.

	- the username used for the database.

	- the associated password.

	- the database name.

	- the directories of the data files.




7. If there are data files specific to the User Groupware, copy them to the server.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Manual mode
<a name="manual_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

To convert the data files of the User Groupware to Client/Server: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "User Groupware".

2. In the description window of the current project configuration, in the "User Groupware" area, click "Change". 

3. In the "General" tab, select "Manual start (programmatically)". 
	The User Groupware must not use the "Automatic start" mode in your application.

4. Select the different options of the User Groupware and validate the window. 

5. In the project initialization code, use [gpwOpenConnection](../WDLang6/3041007.md) to define the connection to the HFSQL Client/Server database.

6. If there are data files specific to the User Groupware, copy them to the server.

7. Use [gpwOpen](../WDLang6/3041002.md) to specify the location of the data files. The specified directory must be relative to the server directory.





