
## Deploying the application for iPhone/iPad
			



## Prerequisite
<a name="prerequisite_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
To be able to test and/or deploy the application on a device (iPhone or iPad), you must enroll in the **Apple Developer Program**. You need to purchase a membership to enroll. You can see the list of programs at [https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/](https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/)

Initially, Apple offered 3 separate programs:

- iOS Developer Program – Individual,

- iOS Developer Program – Company,

- iOS Developer Enterprise Program.




Apple simplified this in March 2021. Now, there are 2 programs: 

- Indiviual. 

- Organization. 




This program includes a developer certificate which allows signing applications to compile and distribute them. This certificate is not free of charge. This developer certificate is required even for a simple setup for test (debug) on a device. 

Here are the characteristics of each program: 

- **Individual**: This program allows the following types of distribution:

	- App Store, 

	- Apple Business Manager and Apple School Manager (Apple validation required for distribution on the App Store, while remaining private),

	- Ad Hoc (limited to 100 devices).




- **Organization**: This type of program allows for distribution outside the Apple Store, therefore without the validation of the application by Apple teams. 
	To distribute an application on a private store (see [MDM with WDBaaS](../Editeurs/1410086652.md)), you must use enroll in this type of program. You can then distribute your application on an unlimited number of Apple devices.








## Running the test of the application on the device
<a name="running_the_test_the_application_the_device_ELTTEXTE000189"></a>
The test on the device is available regardless of the registration type. 

All you have to do is connect your device to your MAC and compile in order to generate the program for the requested device. Then, the program will be installed on the device. It will run in stand-alone mode. In this case, the application is deployed in [Ad Hoc mode](../Editeurs/1000019884.md) on the device. 

The program can also be installed via Wi-Fi or network (In-House deployment).





## Deploying the application on the device
<a name="deploying_the_application_the_device_ELTTEXTE000213"></a>
Three methods can be used to deploy the application on a device (iPhone or iPad).

- **Via App Store**: 
	This type of distribution allows you to distribute your application via the App Store without any restrictions. Your application will include the signature linked to your certificate but it will not be linked to a single device.

- **Via a private network (formerly In-House deployment)**: 
	This type of distribution allows you to distribute your application via a Web server to a group of users working for the same company. For this type of distribution, an Organization membership is required. Your application will include the signature linked to your certificate but it will not be linked to a single device.

- **Via an Ad Hoc network**: 
	This type of distribution allows you to install the application on an Ad Hoc network containing up to 100 devices (iPhone and iPad). 
	The application must be recompiled for the target device by including the certificate for the signature as well as the unique device identifier





### Summary of the different types of distribution
<a name="summary_the_different_types_distribution_ELTPARAGRAPHE000068"></a>



| You want to develop: | App Store distribution | Ad Hoc distribution | Private distribution (In-House) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| an application for your own device. |   | X |   |
| an application for the devices belonging to a group of people (up to 100 devices). |   | X | X |
| an application for the devices belonging to a group of people (more than 100 devices). |   |   | X |
| an application but you don't know the devices on which it will be installed. | X |   |   |
| an application that uses [WINDEV Mobile's MDM](../Editeurs/1410086652.md) . |   |   | X |


For all the other cases, check the license agreement. 


