


## Automatic index generation
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
The automatic index generation suggests index keywords based on the content of your help page.

These keywords must still be checked. However, this feature automatically searches for existing keywords in the help page according to specific criteria

Caution: index keywords are ignored in PDF help files.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000145"></a>
To start the automatic generation of index: 

1. Select the help page to use.

2. Select "Automatic index" from the popup menu of the help page.

3. In the window that is displayed, select the options required to automatically search for the keywords. See the paragraph below for more details.

4. Click "Find" to start the search.

5. Select the keywords that will be associated with the page. A checkmark appears next to each selected keyword.

6. Add new keywords if necessary ("Add" button).

7. Validate. The selected keywords are automatically associated with the current page.


**Remark**: The window for automatic generation of keywords can also be opened from the properties of the page: 

1. On the "Modification" tab, in the "Table of contents" group, click "Description". 

2. On the "Index" tab, click "Auto index...".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Options for selecting keywords
<a name="options_for_selecting_keywords_ELTTEXTE000169"></a>
The options for selecting the keywords are as follows:

- **Show keywords in uppercase characters**: If this option is checked, all the suggested keywords will be automatically written in uppercase characters in the index.

- Selected filters: 

	- **Words in uppercase**: If this filter is included in the search, all words in uppercase found on the help page will be automatically suggested as keywords. If this filter is excluded from the search, none of the words in uppercase found on the page will be suggested.

	- **Words in lowercase**: If this filter is included in the search, all words in lowercase found on the help page will be automatically suggested as keywords.. If this filter is excluded from the search, none of the words in lowercase found on the page will be suggested.

	- **Words with mixed case**: If this filter is included in the search, all words on the help page with both upper and lower case letters will automatically be suggested as keywords. If this filter is excluded from the search, none of the words with both upper and lower case letters will be suggested.

	- **Words of less than three letters**: If this filter is included in the search, all words of less than 3 letters on the help page will be automatically suggested as keywords. If this filter is excluded from the search, none of the words of less than 3 letters will be suggested.








