
## Opening a help file (CHM, HTML or PDF)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000126"></a>
There are several ways to open a help file:

- [opening **a full help**](#NOTE2_1): used to open the help file (displays the summary). 
	In most cases, this operation is performed from a menu option (such as  "?.. General help").

- [opening **the help for a window or a control in the application**](#NOTE3_1): used to open the help file on a specific page. This page presents the different options available in the window or control. 
	In most cases, this operation is performed via the F1 key or via a help button specific to the window.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Opening a full help
<a name="opening_full_help_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>
The help is opened by [WHelp](../WDLang1/3013053.md). Simply specify the name of the help file to open. The help file opens on the first page of the help defined during the compilation.

For example:


```wl
// Open a CHM help file
WHelp("MyChmHelp.chm")
// Opening the help in a multilingual application
WHelp("MyHelp" + Nation() + ".chm")
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Opening the help of a window or control
<a name="opening_the_help_window_control_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>


### Opening the help of a window
<a name="opening_the_help_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

To open the help page of a window, use [WHelp](../WDLang1/3013053.md) and specify the identifier of the desired page. This identifier was defined when creating the help system (in the [characteristics of the page](../Editeurs/2010024.md)).

**Remark**: To automatically create the help button used to display the page corresponding to a window, Drag and Drop the relevant help page to the requested window.

The following example opens the help page of the "WIN_Configuration_Imp" window. The identifier of this help page is set to 5.


```wl
// Open a CHM help file
WHelp("MyChmHelp.chm", 5)
```

<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Opening the help of a control
<a name="opening_the_help_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

To open the help page of a control:

1. Specify the number of the page associated with the control in the control description ("Help" tab, "Help number" control).

2. Use [WHelp](../WDLang1/3013053.md) associated with [NumHelp](../WDLang1/3013027.md) to open the help page (via a help button for example).




The following example presents the code of a help button. This button opens the help page associated with the control being edited.


```wl
// -- Code of Help button
WHelp("MyHelp.chm", NumHelp(ControlCurrent()))
```



