


## Association in a CDM
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>
In a **CDM** (Conceptual Data Model), the associations are used to link the entities between themselves.

The data model editor allows you to easily create associations.

When [generating the LDM from the CDM](../Editeurs/2011020.md), the associations will automatically become [files](../Editeurs/2011010.md) or [links](../Editeurs/2011008.md) (according to the specified cardinalities).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating an association
<a name="creating_association_ELTTEXTE000171"></a>


### Creating an association
<a name="creating_association_ELTPARAGRAPHE000031"></a>

To create an association:

1. On the "CDM" tab, in the "Creation" group, expand "New" and select "New association".

2. Specify:

	- the **name of the association**. When the LDM is generated from the CDM, this name will be the logical name of the created data file if this association contains at least one property or belongs to a complex link.

	- the **association caption** that summarizes the purpose of association.

	- the **notes** that present the operating mode of association.




3. The association becomes the current association. The properties of this association can be described automatically.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Operations performed on an association
<a name="operations_performed_association_ELTTEXTE000195"></a>


### Duplicate an association
<a name="duplicate_association_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

To duplicate/copy an association:

1. Select the association to duplicate.

2. Press Ctrl + C then Ctrl + V to copy the association.

3. In the duplication window, specify the requested information and validate. The duplicated association is automatically created in the current CDM.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Deleting an association
<a name="deleting_association_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

To delete an association:

1. Select the association to delete.

2. Open the popup menu of the selected association (right mouse click).

3. Select "Delete". The association is automatically deleted from the CDM. If relationships were pointing to this association, these relationships are also deleted.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Renaming an association
<a name="renaming_association_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

To rename an association:

1. Select the association to rename.

2. On the "CDM" tab, in the "Current element" group, click "Description".

3. Modify the name of the association and validate the association description. The association is automatically renamed.





