


## Operations performed on a data file (Data model editor)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000189"></a>
The main operations that can be performed on a data file from the data model editor are as follows:

- [Duplicate/Copy a data file](#NOTE2_1).

- [Delete a data file](#NOTE2_2).

- [Rename a data file](#NOTE2_3).

- [Use a dictionary](#NOTE2_4).

- [Create the corresponding empty physical file (".FIC" file)](#NOTE2_5).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Handling a data file
<a name="handling_data_file_ELTTEXTE000213"></a>


### Duplicating/Copying a data file
<a name="duplicatingcopying_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

Duplicating a data file is used to get two identical data files with different names.

To duplicate/copy a data file:

1. Select the data file to duplicate.

2. On the "Home" tab, in the "Editing" group, click "Duplicate". 
	Remark: You also have the ability to select "Duplicate" in the context menu of the file. 

3. Specify the requested information and validate. The duplicated data file is automatically created in the current analysis (LDM).



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Deleting a data file
<a name="deleting_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

To delete a data file:

1. Select the data file to delete.

2. Right-click to open the context menu of the data file.

3. Select "Delete". The data file is automatically deleted from the analysis (LDM). If links pointed to this data file, these links are also deleted.




**Remark**: When creating a data file whose name is identical to the name of a data file that was deleted beforehand, WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose to restore the description of the deleted data file.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Renaming a data file
<a name="renaming_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000074"></a>

To rename a data file:

1. Select the data file to rename.

2. Open the file description: 

	- On the "Analysis" tab, in the "Current element" group, click "Description".

	- Open the context menu of the file (right click) and select "Description of data file". 




3. In the description window, modify the name of the data file (and its name on disk if necessary). 

4. Validate. The data file is automatically renamed.



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Using a dictionary
<a name="using_dictionary_ELTPARAGRAPHE000101"></a>

A data file can be included in a dictionary in order to be re-used in a new application for example. The data file is included in a dictionary simply by dragging it from the data model editor and dropping it in the dictionary (in the ["Dictionary" pane](../Editeurs/2027014.md)).

When it is included in the dictionary, the description of the data file can subscribe to the modifications. Any modification made in the description of the data file will be applied to the dictionary object and to all the uses of this object.

For more details, see [dictionary](../Editeurs/2023002.md).
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Creating the corresponding empty data file
<a name="creating_the_corresponding_empty_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000118"></a>

To create the corresponding empty physical data file:

1. Select the data file for which a physical file must be created.

2. Open the context menu of the file (right click) and select "Create data file".

3. Select the directory where the data file will be created and validate.




The following files are automatically created in the specified directory:

- "&lt;Data file&gt;.FIC" (data file).

- "&lt;Data file name&gt;.MMO" (memo file).

- "&lt;Data file name&gt;.NDX" (index file).




If the data file is logged, a "JNL" subdirectory will be automatically created and will contain the different logged files.

If the data file contains a full-text index, a "&lt;File name&gt;.FTX" file will be created. 

**Remarks**:

- This option is equivalent to calling [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md).

- This option will be ignored if the data file already exists in the specified directory.





