


## Code editor: Display options
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000173"></a>
The code editor proposes several display options:

- [Displaying empty processes](#NOTE2_1).

- [Displaying the processes of overridden templates](#NOTE3_1).

- [Displaying the line numbers](#NOTE4_1).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying/Hiding empty WLanguage events
<a name="displayinghiding_empty_wlanguage_events_ELTTEXTE000197"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

The code editor enables you to display the code of a multiple selection (controls, global procedures, class methods, etc.). Each element has a number of WLanguage events.

Displaying all these events can impact readability, despite the fact that most of them are empty.

By default, empty events are not displayed.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Displaying empty WLanguage events
<a name="displaying_empty_wlanguage_events_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

To display empty WLanguage events:

1. Go to the code editor.

2. On the "Display" tab, in the "Help for edit" group, check or uncheck "Show empty processes". If empty WLanguage events are already displayed, they are automatically hidden (and vice versa).




You can also press Ctrl + F6.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Displaying/Hiding WLanguage events of overridden templates
<a name="displayinghiding_wlanguage_events_overridden_templates_ELTTEXTE000227"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

If the element displayed in the code editor is associated with a template, you can display the WLanguage events of the overridden templates.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Displaying WLanguage events of overridden templates
<a name="displaying_wlanguage_events_overridden_templates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

To display the WLanguage events of overridden templates:

1. Go to the code editor.

2. On the "Display" tab, in the "Help for edit" group, check or uncheck "Show processes of templates". If these events are already displayed, they are automatically hidden (and vice versa).




It is also possible to use the Shift + F6 key combination.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Displaying/Hiding the line numbers
<a name="displayinghiding_the_line_numbers_ELTTEXTE000257"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

The code editor allows you to display a line number in front of each code line.

The line numbers are not displayed by default.
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Displaying the line numbers
<a name="displaying_the_line_numbers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

To display the line numbers:

1. Go to the code editor.

2. On the "Display" tab, in the "Help for edit" group, click "Show line numbers". If line numbers are already displayed, they are automatically hidden (and vice versa).




It is also possible to use the Ctrl + Shift + G key combination.


