
## "Component.WDO" file
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000154"></a>
When generating the external component, multiple files are automatically created in the EXE directory of the current project:


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| &lt;Component name&gt;.WDK | Contains all the WINDEV elements to be redistributed with the component (windows, reports, etc.). |
| &lt;Component name&gt;.WDI | Component interface. This file contains:<br><br>- a help text on how to use the component when it is reintegrated,<br><br>- the elements required to use the component in the project (compilation information, etc.).<br><br><br> |
| &lt;Component name&gt;.WDZ | ***File with the dependencies of the WDK file*** (only for WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile components)<br>File containing the dependencies of the WDK file. This information is extracted in the project in which the component is integrated. <br><br>- For a WEBDEV component, this file contains the generated WEBDEV pages, images, etc. <br><br>- For a Mobile component (iOS or Android), this file contains the Android generation files, for example.<br><br><br> |


These files must be distributed along with the component.

**If the external component uses additional elements** (data files, for example), the following files must be added in the project EXE directory:

- a &lt;Component name&gt;.WDO file: This file contains the list of external files (data files, text files, etc.) used by the external component. These files must be provided and installed with the external component.

- the files that must be distributed with the external component. These files can be in a specific subtree. In this case, the code of the external component must manage the access to these files based on this tree structure.




**Remark**: When distributing an external component via the setup program, the WDO file is automatically created. For more details, see [Distributing an external component with a WDO file](#NOTE3_1).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## What is a WDO file?
<a name="what_wdo_file_ELTTEXTE000178"></a>


### &lt;Component name&gt;.WDO file in detail
<a name="wdo_file_detail_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

The &lt;Component name&gt;.WDO file is a TXT file that can be created and edited at any time. This file can be created and edited with Notepad, the Windows standard text editor.

This file contains the list of external files (data files, text files, etc.) used by the external component. These are also the files that must be provided and installed with the external component. These files must be copied to the EXE directory of the projects that use the external component.

This ".WDO" file can contain:

- **the full name of the file.**
	For example: C:\\ComponentsWD\\PickerComponent\\InitialStatus.INI

- **the file name.** This file will be searched in the current directory of the external component. 
	For example: InitialStatus.INI

- **a file name that uses a relative path.** The available syntaxes are as follows: 
	- Directory\\FileName.xxx to specify a subdirectory of the current directory.
	- **.\\**FileName.xxx to specify the current directory.
	- **.\\**FileName.xx to specify the parent directory.
	For example: \\PickerComponent\\InitialStatus.INI




This file will be used when including the external component in the project. The paths specified in the WDO file must correspond to the paths where the files are installed on the development computer of the external component.

When including the external component, the tree structure specified in the WDO file will be kept and reproduced in the EXE directory of the project. For more details, see [Using an external component in an application](../Editeurs/2014006.md).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Example
<a name="example_ELTPARAGRAPHE000089"></a>

To provide and install the component with the data file, the WDO file must be created in the EXE directory of the component creation project. This file must contain the following lines:


```txt
.\CEDEX.Fic
.\CEDEX.NDX
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Distributing an external component with a WDO file
<a name="distributing_external_component_with_wdo_file_ELTTEXTE000208"></a>
To distribute a component that uses a WDO file, you need to provide:

- the WDK file (if necessary)

- the WDI file

- the WDO file

- all the necessary files referenced in the WDO file.





