


## Translating the external components
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
In WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile, an external component is a set of elements that performs a specific action (send faxes, emails, etc.). External components can be redistributed to other WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile developers.

Developers will then be able to easily include the feature from the component in their applications. The component will be included in and distributed with the application.

For multilingual applications, it may be useful to translate the external component used. Indeed, let's imagine a component that supports French and English included in a project that supports French and Spanish. 
By default, the mechanism for preferred languages proposes English instead of Spanish.

In order for the external component to use the application language, the different elements of the components must be translated. This technique requires the use of WDMSG. WDMSG is an optional tool for WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile used to extract and reintegrate all the messages to be translated.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000161"></a>


### Translating a component used in an application
<a name="translating_component_used_application_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

To translate a component used in an application:

1. Install (if necessary) WDMSG on the development computer.

2. The component used by the project must be defined as translatable: the translation of the component must have been allowed by the author of the component. 
	To do so, check "Allow component translation" when generating the component. For more details, see [Generating a component](../Editeurs/2014002.md). 
	To find out whether the components used can be translated, open the description of the component ("General" tab).

3. Use WDMSG to extract the elements from the component (and from your project if necessary): on the "Translate" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Translate" and select "Extract messages". A wdmsg file containing the messages to translate is created.

4. Translate the messages (or contact a translator). For more details on WDMSG, see [Using WDMSG](../WDMsg/3518039.md).

5. Reintegrate the translated messages: on the "Translate" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Translate" and select "Reintegrate messages". Several files are automatically created during the reintegration:

	- &lt;Component name&gt;.WDIT: This file contains the different messages of the component in the source language as well as their translation. This file is found on the development computer only.

	- &lt;Component name&gt;.WDKT: This file contains the different translations of the component in the desired language. This file will be used at runtime to display the translated messages in the desired language.




6. The application can be deployed.  



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Translating and updating the component
<a name="translating_and_updating_the_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

The version of the component changes when the component is updated in the project.

When updating the component, the WDKT file is automatically re-created from the existing translations found in the WDIT file. Indeed, the version of the component must be synchronized with the version of the WDKT file. To do so, WDMSG must be installed on the computer.

The component is ready to be used.

- If all the resources of the component have been translated, the elements of the component will be displayed in the desired language.

- If some resources have not been translated, they will appear in the original language of the component. In this case, it will be necessary to perform another extraction with WDMSG to translate the missing resources.





