


## Handling an internal component
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000159"></a>
An internal component is a set of elements from a project. This set is used to:

- **Organize a project**: you can create internal components to group the elements of a project, by functionality, for example.

- **Share elements between multiple projects**: The elements in an internal component can be shared between multiple projects via the SCM. For more details, see [Sharing an internal component](../Editeurs/2014101.md).




The editor allows you to handle an internal component from the "Project explorer" pane. The elements of an internal component are viewed in a hierarchical structure in the project explorer: windows, reports, pages, ...

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Possible operations
<a name="possible_operations_ELTTEXTE000183"></a>


### Displaying the description of an internal component
<a name="displaying_the_description_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

To display the description of an internal component:

1. Select the internal component in the "Project explorer" pane.

2. Select "Description" in the context menu of the report.




For more details on the information displayed, see [Description window of the internal component](../Editeurs/2014103.md).
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Adding an element into the internal component
<a name="adding_element_into_the_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

An element can be added into an internal component:

- via the description of the internal component ("Elements" tab).

- via the "Project explorer" pane. To do so, Drag and Drop an element from the project to the internal component.




The corresponding file is physically moved to the directory of internal component. By default, the element included in the internal component is "Public". To make this element "Private", select "Switch to private" in the context menu of the element.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Deleting an element from the internal component
<a name="deleting_element_from_the_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

An element can be deleted from the internal component:

- via the description of the internal component ("Elements" tab).

- via the "Project explorer" pane: a Drag and Drop operation performed on an element of the internal component to the corresponding project category allows you to "remove" the element from the internal component. The element becomes associated with the project.




**Caution**: If an element of an internal component is deleted via the Delete key in a project that does not use the SCM, this element will no longer be part of the project. To re-integrate this element of internal component in the project, this element will have to be opened and added to the project manually.
<a name="NOTE3_5"></a>


### Modifying the public and private elements of an internal component
<a name="modifying_the_public_and_private_elements_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The modification of public and private elements found in an internal component can be performed:

- In the "Project explorer" pane, select the element, then select "Switch to private" or "Switch to public" in the context menu. If the element is switched to private, a red square is displayed on the element in the "Project explorer" pane.

- From the description of the internal component ("Elements" tab).



<a name="NOTE3_6"></a>


### Deleting an internal component
<a name="deleting_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

An internal component can be deleted from the project using the Delete key.

**Caution**: If an internal component is deleted from a project that does not use the SCM, the elements of the internal component will not be part of the project anymore. To re-include the elements of the internal component in the project, the elements of the internal component will have to be opened and added to the project manually.

To reintegrate the internal component into the project, go to the "Project" tab, "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "An Internal component .. From a file".
<a name="NOTE3_7"></a>


### Listing the internal components of project
<a name="listing_the_internal_components_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

To list the internal components of a project:

1. In the project explorer: 

	- Select the "Internal components" folder. 

	- Select "Manage project internal components" in the context menu.




2. The window that appears lists all the internal components used by the project. From this window, you can:

	- Display the description of the selected internal component.

	- Update the internal component (during a share via SCM).

	- Delete an internal component.

	- Import an internal component found in the SCM.

	- Import the files of an internal component into the project. This option allows you to copy the files of an internal component into the current project. The files are copied and not shared. This option is useful when a component is deleted by mistake from the project.








