


## Sharing internal components (via SCM)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
An internal component is a set of elements from a project. This set is used to:

- **Organize a project**: You can create internal components to group the elements of a project, by functionality, for example. The project can be found (or not) in the SCM.

- **Share elements between multiple projects**: The elements found in an internal component can be shared between several projects via the SCM.




One of the advantages of an internal component compared to an external component is that it can be debugged directly from the project that uses it.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Sharing an internal component
<a name="sharing_internal_component_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
The internal components can be shared between multiple projects via the SCM.

To share an internal component via the SCM, the project containing the internal component must be in the SCM. You can:

- create the internal component from a project located in the SCM. The internal component will be automatically saved in the SCM.

- import a project containing one or more internal components into the SCM. The internal components will be automatically included in the SCM.




For more details, see [Creating an internal component](../Editeurs/2014100.md).
When an internal component is imported into a project, the component description window presents the dependencies (other internal or external components) required for the imported component to operate properly.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Using an internal component in a project found in the SCM
<a name="using_internal_component_project_found_the_scm_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

To use an internal component in a project found in the SCM:

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "An Internal component .. From SCM". The project file is automatically checked out if necessary.

2. The window for adding an internal component is displayed. The list of internal components found in the SCM is displayed. You have the ability to view she shares already performed for each available component.

3. Select an internal component and validate.

4. The internal component and all its element are automatically included in the project. A subdirectory named as the internal component is created in the local project (on the development computer). This directory contains all the component elements. This sub-directory is also created in the directory of the project in the SCM database.




Remarks:

- You also have the ability to import an internal component without using the SCM: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "An Internal component .. From a file". The content of internal component will be copied into the project. The elements are not shared.

- You can also use an internal component found in the SCM from the window for managing the internal components ("Manage the internal components of the project" from the popup menu of the "Internal components" folder found in the project explorer).



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Handling a shared internal component
<a name="handling_shared_internal_component_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

Whether the internal component is shared or not, the operations that can be performed on the internal component are identical. For more details, see [Handling an internal component](../Editeurs/2014104.md).

Caution: when the internal component is shared, all the developers who use the SCM can modify the internal component and its characteristics. You can limit the modifications by applying a management of rights to the internal components and to its files. For more details, see [Managing the rights in the SCM](../Editeurs/2038019.md).


