


## Custom style sheet 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000181"></a>
When creating a project, a blank custom style sheet is created and associated with the current project. This style sheet can be modified from the window editor and it will contain the different styles created by the developer.

This style sheet is created in the project directory and it is named "&lt;ProjectName>.STY".

Another custom style sheet can be associated with the project at any time.

This page explains how to:

- [Associate a project with a custom style sheet](#NOTE2).

- [Create, modify or delete a style in a custom style sheet](#NOTE3).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to associate a project with a custom style sheet?
<a name="how_associate_project_with_custom_style_sheet_ELTTEXTE000205"></a>
To associate the current project with a custom style sheet: 

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Display the "Style" tab.

3. Select the custom style sheet (".STY" file) that must be associated with the project in "Style sheet".




Remarks:

- The same custom style sheet can be associated with several projects.

- When opening a window that uses styles from the former project style sheet, you can:

	- *change nothing*. The controls that use the styles from the former style sheet will not be modified. We advise you to associate these controls with styles from the new style sheet.
			The styles of the former style sheet can be added to the new custom style sheet during the next window opening.

	- *add the styles found in the former style sheet* to the new custom style sheet.







<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to create, modify or delete a style found in a custom style sheet?
<a name="how_create_modify_delete_style_found_custom_style_sheet_ELTTEXTE000229"></a>


### Creating a style for a type of control in the custom style sheet of current project
<a name="creating_style_for_type_control_the_custom_style_sheet_current_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

To create a style for a type of control in the custom style sheet of the current project: 

1. Create a control of this type in a window of your project via the "Creation" pane. For example, to create a new button style, create a button control.

2. Display the window for editing the style sheets ("Choose a style" from the popup menu of the control).

3. Click the "Create" button. The style description window appears.

4. Specify the desired style options ("General" and "Style" tabs) and validate. This new style is automatically added to the custom style sheet of the current project. This style can be applied to the controls of the same type in all the projects that use this style sheet.




Remark: You can also create a new style from the description window of a control:

1. Go to the "Style" tab in the control description window ("Description" in the popup menu).

2. Modify the desired style options and validate ("OK" or "Apply" button). The window for modifying the control style is displayed.

3. Select the "Add this style to the project" box, enter the name of this new style and validate ("OK" button).



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Modifying a style for a type of control in the custom style sheet of the current project
<a name="modifying_style_for_type_control_the_custom_style_sheet_the_current_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

To modify a style for a type of control in the custom style sheet of the current project:

1. Select a control of this type in one of your project's windows. For example, to modify the style of a button, select a button control.

2. Display the window for editing the style sheets ("Choose a style" from the popup menu).

3. Select the style to modify.

4. Click the "Modify" button. The style description window appears.
	**Remark**: The "Modify" button is grayed if the selected style belongs to a non-modifiable style sheet (style sheet of skin template for example).

5. Make the desired changes ("General" and "Style" tabs) and validate ("OK").

6. Apply the modifications ("Apply" button). The modifications are automatically applied to the current control and to the controls that use this style in the windows opened in the window editor.




Remarks:

- To apply the changes made on all the controls that use this style in the current project, go to the "Project" tab, "Project" group, expand "Recompile and synchronize" and select "Refresh style and skin template".

- You can also modify a style from the description of a control ("Style" tab).

- To modify the style of several controls of the same type, select the controls (by keeping the Ctrl key down for example) before opening the window used to edit the style sheets.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Deleting a style for a type of control from the custom style sheet of the current project
<a name="deleting_style_for_type_control_from_the_custom_style_sheet_the_current_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000116"></a>

To delete a style for a type of control from the custom style sheet of the current project:

1. Select a control of this type in one of your project's windows. For example, to delete a button style, select a button control.

2. Display the window for editing the style sheets ("Choose a style" from the popup menu).

3. Select the style to delete.

4. Click the "Delete" button and confirm the style deletion.
	**Remark**: The "Delete" button is grayed if the selected style belongs to a non-modifiable style sheet (style sheet of skin template for example).

5. Select the new style for the current control and apply this new style ("Apply" button).




Remarks:

- If other project controls use the deleted style, we advise you to select "No action" when opening the windows and to associate these controls with a different style. For more details, see [Changing the style associated with a control](../Editeurs/2016006.md).

- You can also delete a style from the description of a control ("Style" tab).





