


## Color palettes
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000259"></a>
The color palettes are an easy way to customize the visual aspect of a site.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Sequence for applying the color palettes
<a name="sequence_for_applying_the_color_palettes_ELTTEXTE000283"></a>
The color palette of a page can be defined at three different levels (in descending order of priority):

- In the project.

- In the page template from which the page inherits the properties.

- In the page itself.




Therefore, the general palette must be defined at project level. If a set of pages (e.g., "Management" pages of a site) must use a specific palette, you can redefine the project palette as a page template. Finally, if a specific page must have a different palette, you can choose the palette only for that page.

WEBDEV allows you to: 

- [Define the palette used](#NOTE3_1). 

- [Create a new palette](#NOTE4_2).

- [Modify an existing palette](#NOTE4_3).

- [Duplicate a palette](#NOTE4_4).




Remark: the colors of palettes can be accessed through programming ([ColorPalette](../WDLang2/1000019905.md)). This allows you to create a generic code, independent of the skin and palette used.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Defining the color palette used
<a name="defining_the_color_palette_used_ELTTEXTE000307"></a>
The color palettes define a set of colors that are proposed in all color pickers of project.

These colors are also applied to the styles defined in the project skin in order to easily change the visual aspect of a project.

When creating a WEBDEV project, the wizard allows you to choose the color palette that will be used. This choice can be modified at any time. 

**To modify the color palette used by a project**:

1. Open the project description window: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Select the "Skins" tab.

3. Choose a palette among the preset palettes.

4. Validate the project description window. 




**To modify the color palette used by a page template or by a page**:

1. Open the page description window: on the "Page" tab, in the "Description" group, click "Description".

2. Select the "Style" tab.

3. Click the browse button to select a color palette.

4. If the selected palette is "Like the project", the palette of the project will be used.




**Remark**: The color palette used by a project (new palette or modified palette) is copied into the project directory. When the project is used in SCM, the color palette is also included in the elements managed by the SCM.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Managing color palettes
<a name="managing_color_palettes_ELTTEXTE000331"></a>
To increase the possibilities of palettes, WEBDEV allows you to:  

- Create a new palette. 

- Modify an existing palette. 

- Duplicate a palette. 

- Modify an element found in the list of last elements used.




To manage palettes: 

- select "Create a new palette" in the "Skins" tab of the project description (to open the project description, go to the "Project" tab, "Project" group, and click "Description"). 

- on the "Page" tab, in the "Skin and styles" group, expand "Palette" and click "Create a new palette".




The palette editor appears. This editor is used to: 

- [Create a new palette](#NOTE4_2). 

- [Modify an existing palette.](#NOTE4_3)

- [Duplicating a palette.](#NOTE4_4)



<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Generating/Creating a palette
<a name="generatingcreating_palette_ELTPARAGRAPHE000155"></a>

In the palette editor: 

1. Click "Generate a palette". 

2. Specify the name of the palette. 

3. Select the base color of the palette via the chromatic circle and the color chart. 

4. Validate. 

5. The characteristics of the different colors found in the palette are displayed. You can: 

	- modify each palette color individually. A preview is displayed at the top of the editor. 

	- save the modifications performed. 

	- reload the last modifications saved (the modifications performed since the last backup are lost). 

	- select a color with the eyedropper.




6. Validate the window. The new palette is automatically added to the list of available palettes in the project description.



<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Modifying a palette
<a name="modifying_palette_ELTPARAGRAPHE000176"></a>

In the palette editor: 

1. Click "Modify a palette". 

2. Select the palette to modify. If this palette is a palette supplied by WEBDEV, this palette is automatically duplicated: specify its new name. 

3. Validate. 

4. The characteristics of the different colors found in the palette are displayed. You can: 

	- modify each palette color individually. A preview is displayed at the top of the editor. 

	- save the modifications performed. 

	- reload the last modifications saved (the modifications performed since the last backup are lost).

	- select a color with the eyedropper.




5. Validate the window. The palette is automatically modified.



<a name="NOTE4_4"></a>


### Duplicate a palette
<a name="duplicate_palette_ELTPARAGRAPHE000196"></a>

In the palette editor: 

1. Click "Duplicate a palette". 

2. Select the palette to duplicate. 

3. Validate. 

4. Specify the name of the new palette (created from the selected palette). 

5. The characteristics of the different colors found in the palette are displayed. You can: 

	- modify each palette color individually. A preview is displayed at the top of the editor. 

	- save the modifications performed. 

	- reload the last modifications saved (the modifications performed since the last backup are lost). 

	- select a color with the eyedropper.




6. Validate the window. The new palette is automatically added to the list of available palettes in the project description.





