


## Style sheet 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>
A style sheet (".STY" extension) contains:

- the style of window controls (background color, font, border, ...), 

- the information regarding the aspect of window controls (background image, dimension, ...).




When creating a project, several style sheets are automatically associated with the project:

- **a default WINDEV style sheet**. 
	This style sheet contains several default styles for all the types of controls. This application is found in the "\\Programs\\Data" directory of setup directory of WINDEV.

- **a [custom style sheet](../Editeurs/2016015.md)**.
	When creating a project, this empty style sheet is automatically associated with the current project and it is named "&lt;ProjectName&gt;.STY". This style sheet is created in the project directory. 
	This style sheet contains: 

	- style information regarding the window (background image, background color). 

	- style information regarding the menu options. 

	- the style of the controls (and some properties of the controls such as the alignment). 
			This style sheet is fully modifiable and customizable.




- **a skin-template style sheet** if the project is associated with a skin template.
	This style sheet contains the styles proposed by the skin template of the project for all types of controls. 
	**Remark**: The skin-template style sheet associated with the project depends on the skin template of the project. If the skin template of the project is modified, the skin-template style sheet associated with the project will be changed. To change the skin template of the project, you can use one of the following methods: 

	- in the "Style" tab of the project description, in "Project skin template", select the desired skin template. 

	- on the "Project" tab, in the "Other actions" group, "Apply a skin template to the project". Select the desired skin template. 


 For more details, see [Skin template](../Editeurs/2016011.md).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000175"></a>


### Operations that can be performed on the styles
<a name="operations_that_can_performed_the_styles_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

Most of the operations made on the styles are performed in the custom style sheet. The window editor proposes a specific interface allowing you to perform these operations.

From the interface of the window editor, you can:

- [change the custom style sheet associated with the project](../Editeurs/2016015.md).

- [change the style associated with a control](../Editeurs/2016006.md).

- [modify the style of a control](../Editeurs/2016006.md).

- [create, modify or delete a style in a custom style sheet](../Editeurs/2016015.md).




For an advanced management of style sheets (customizing the skin-template style sheets for example), WINDEV allows you to handle the ".STY" file in the window editor.

From the ".STY" file, you can:

- [modify or delete a style in a style sheet](../Editeurs/2016010.md).

- [see the content of a style sheet](../Editeurs/2016010.md).

- [import a style into a style sheet](../Editeurs/2016010.md).

- [define the default style for a type of control](../Editeurs/2016010.md).




Remark: You also have the ability to compare two style sheets. For more details, see [Project comparator](../Editeurs/2030024.md).


