


## Testing a dynamic project from a test server
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000109"></a>


### Before deploying your dynamic WEBDEV site, we recommend that you run the final tests from a test sever.
<a name="before_deploying_your_dynamic_webdev_site_recommend_that_you_run_the_final_tests_from_test_sever_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

CAUTION: The deployment engine for test MUST NOT be installed on a computer where WEBDEV Development version or WEBDEV Deployment version is installed.

The limitations of the deployment engine for test compared to the actual deployment engine are as follows:

- The maximum number of connections (for all the WEBDEV applications installed on the computer) cannot exceed 10.

- The deployment engine for test does NOT operate in TEST mode (which means that this engine does not operate with the WEBDEV editor)

- The WEBDEV administrator has the following mention: "Test engine".

- A mention indicating that the application is used with a test engine is displayed in the title bar of the browser: "Test engine; any use other than the punctual test is illegal"




**Elements that must be installed on the "Test server"**

- Your dynamic WEBDEV site (setup by FTP or by physical media). For more details, see [Site setup](../Editeurs/2028039.md).

- An Internet browser.

- The "Test" engine of WEBDEV. This engine is available in the setup package of WEBDEV "Development Version".

- A Web server (the Apache server is provided with WEBDEV "Development Version").

- The TCP/IP protocol.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>


### Testing a dynamic site on a test server
<a name="testing_dynamic_site_test_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

Several methods can be used to test the project on a test server:

- 1st method:

	1. Start the WEBDEV administrator: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDAdmin". 

	2. Click the "Test page" button ("Advanced" tab).




- 2nd method: (recommended)
	Connect to the site by entering the following Internet address: 
	
	```txt
	http://<IP address of test server>/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.EXE/CONNECT/<Project name>
	```






