
## Multi-project processes: using batches
			






	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>16</B></B>, the creation of batch processes is kept for backward compatibility. We recommend that you use the [Software Factory](../Editeurs/1000019563.md) to automate the process for creating applications. 





<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>
WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile allow you to run a set of processes (compilation, generation, ...) that will be applied to a project or to a group of projects. These processes are grouped in a "batch".

The batches can be run immediately or by the scheduled tasks of Windows (compiling a group of projects every night for example).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000201"></a>


### Creating a batch file
<a name="creating_batch_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000029"></a>

To create a batch file:

1. Select "Workshop .. Multi-project batch .. Create a batch". The wizard for batch creation starts.

2. Specify the batch name, its location and its description.
	**Remark**: The extension of the file corresponding to a batch is ".WDBatch".

3. Select the different projects to handle in the batch via the "Add a project", "Add several projects" and "Delete from the list" buttons.
	**Remarks**:

	- The order of projects is very important. For example, a project generating a component used by a second project must be processed first.

	- The same project can be displayed several times in the list of projects. Indeed, the different project configurations can be processed. All the project configurations are taken into account by default. The choice of the configuration to take into account is performed in the batch description.




4. Specify the processes that must be run by the batch. A list of processes is proposed by default. You have the ability to add or delete processes.
	You can now configure the operations that will be automatically performed during the execution of the batch via the "Edit the road map" button. These operations affect:

	- the automatic update of the components.

	- the synchronization of the project with the analysis.

	- synchronizing the templates.

	- the update of the project.

	- the management of the compilation errors (the compilation errors of UI are ignored). If "Start the generation regardless of the errors" is selected, a "warning" will be written into the status report whenever a compilation error occurs.

	- the management of automated tests. If the option "Continue the batch execution regardless of errors" is selected, a "warning" will be written into the status report whenever an error occurs in the automatic tests.

	- the options specific to the projects found in the SCM.




5. Specify the post-batch actions to run. You have the ability to run an executable after the batch, to close the editor, to switch the computer off, ... A status report can also be sent into the WDBal messaging.

6. The wizard is finished. You can:

	- Edit the batch description. The description window of the batch is used to configure the characteristics of the batch more precisely.

	- Run the batch immediately.

	- Schedule the execution of the batch by creating a scheduled task in Windows. The wizard for creating a programmed task starts.






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Tip
<a name="tip_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

To process the multi-product projects (project with a configuration in WINDEV and a configuration in WEBDEV for example), we advise you to create a batch for each product.

For example, the WINDEV batch will be used to process the WINDEV configuration of the project and the WEBDEV batch will be used to process the WEBDEV configuration of the project.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Status report of a batch
<a name="status_report_batch_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

When running a batch, a status report is automatically generated (.wbl file). This status report can be opened in the editor:

- via "Workshop .. Multi-project batch .. Open a batch report".

- via "File .. Open".




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Describing a batch
<a name="describing_batch_ELTTEXTE000237"></a>
The description of an existing batch can be displayed at any time. To do so, open the batch:

- via "Workshop .. Multi-project batch .. Open a batch".

- Via "File .. Open".




The description window of a batch is used to:

- Create a new batch ("New" button).

- Select an existing batch.

- Start the execution of the batch ("Start the execution" button) or schedule the execution of the batch in Windows ("Schedule the execution" button).

- Define for each project processed by the batch:

	- the configuration to process. All the project configurations are processed by default.

	- the list of  processes to perform. The main list of the batch is applied to all the projects by default. You have the ability to create a new list of processes. Each project can be associated with a different list of processes. The list of processes is displayed in the lower section of the screen. A specific road map can be defined for each list of processes.




- Define the post-batch actions to perform ("Post-batch actions" button).




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Running a batch in command line
<a name="running_batch_command_line_ELTTEXTE000261"></a>
The following syntax allows you to run a batch in command line:

In WINDEV:


```txt
WinDev17.EXE /NAME="<Initials>" /PASS="<Password>" /BATCH="<Full name of batch>"
```


In WINDEV Mobile:


```txt
WD17Mobile.EXE /NAME="<Initials>" /PASS="<Password>" /BATCH="<Full name of batch>"
```


In WEBDEV:


```txt
WEBDEV17.EXE /NAME="<Initials>" /PASS="<Password>" /BATCH="<Full name of batch>"
```


where

&lt;Initials&gt; corresponds to the initials used in the login window of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile.

&lt;Password&gt; corresponds to the password used in the login window of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile.

&lt;Full name of batch&gt; corresponds to the full path of the batch file to run.

For example:


```txt
WinDev17.EXE /NAME="FP" /BATCH="C:\MyProjects\Test.WDBatch"
```



