
## Stand-alone executable 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000092"></a>
The executable will be **stand-alone** if the following elements are included in the executable:

- the WINDEV libraries (".DLL" files) required by the application.

- the main and/or external libraries (".WDL" files).




Only the executable must be installed on the end-user computers. However, the WINDEV DLLs (".DLL" files) and the libraries (".WDL" files) will be automatically checked out into the launch directory of the executable program **whenever** the executable program is started. The DLLs and the libraries found in this directory will be automatically replaced.

To avoid recreating the DLLs and the libraries whenever the executable program is started, we advise you to create a self-extracting setup. This type of setup is used to install all the files required by the application on the end-user computers. The user handles the application executable only. For more details, see [Setup program](../Editeurs/2028001.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Limitations and notes
<a name="limitations_and_notes_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>


### Replacing the existing files
<a name="replacing_the_existing_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

**Caution**: When running the executable program, the libraries (".DLL" files) are automatically extracted and they replace the existing ones. These replacements may trigger problems if several WINDEV applications are installed on the same computer.

For example, the applications named "MyApp1" and "MyApp2" are installed in the same directory. When running the executable of "MyApp1", the libraries (".DLL" files) associated with "MyApp1" can overwrite the libraries used by "MyApp2". If each executable of these applications was created with a different version of WINDEV, some features of "MyApp2" may not operate properly.

**Solution**: To avoid overwriting existing DLLs, we recommend that you rename the DLLs used by the application when creating the executable program.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

- Including libraries (".DLL" files) and external libraries (".WDL" files) in the executable allows you to install and/or to update a single file. However, the size of the created executable file is larger.

- The executable must be recreated in the following cases:

	- if only one of the DLLs must be updated.

	- if one of the external libraries must be updated.








