


## Special paste 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>
The **Special paste** command allows you to explicitly choose the format in which the clipboard content will be pasted in the window or page editor. 

For example, if you copy a data file found int the analysis, the **Special Paste** command allows you to:

- Create a table displaying the records found in the copied data file.

- Copy the name of data file into a Static control.

- Display the graphic representation of data file in an Image control and  create a Bitmap file (".BMP" extension).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000190"></a>
To use the Special Paste command:

1. Select the element to paste. 

2. Copy the element to paste: 

	- in WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile: on the "Home" tab, in the "Editing" group, click "Copy". 

	- "Edit .. Copy" in the software used. 

	- Ctrl + C.




3. Display the window or page where the element will be pasted.

4. On the "Home" tab, in the "Editing" group, click "Paste" and select "Special paste".

5. Select the format in which the copied element will be pasted (see below).

6. Validate the paste operation.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000214"></a>
The different formats proposed by WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile for the special paste are:

- **Windows file**: One or more files have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, one or more controls will be created in the current window. The type of the created controls depends on the type of the copied files. 
	For example, if an image file is copied from the explorer, an Image control displaying the image will be created in the current window. The Image control is associated with the copied image file (source path).

- **Analysis file or item**: One or more data files or items found int he analysis have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, one or more controls will be created in the current window. 
	For example, if the description of the "Customer" data file is copied, a table listing the customers will be created in the current window.

- **Group of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile objects**: One or more WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile elements (query, control, ...) have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, one or more controls will be created in the current window or page. 
	For example, if a button found in the WINDEV dictionary is copied, this button will be created in the current window.

- **Image**: One or more images have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected:

	- One or more controls will  be created in the current window. These controls will display the copied images. The copied images **will not be automatically associated** with the color palette.

	- One or more bitmap files (".BMP" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.
			For example, if an image displayed in an image processing software ("Photoshop" for example) is copied:

		- an Image control displaying the copied image will be created in the current window, 

		- a Bitmap file ("BMP" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.




- **Image with palette**: One or more images have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected:

	- One or more controls will  be created in the current window. These controls will display the copied images. The copied images **will be automatically associated** with the color palette.

	- One or more bitmap files (".BMP" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.
			For example, if an image displayed in an image processing software ("Photoshop" for example) is copied:

		- an Image control displaying the copied image will be created in the current window, 

		- a Bitmap file ("BMP" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.




- **Image (improved metafile)**: One or more images have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected:

	- One or more controls will  be created in the current window.

	- One or more metafile files (".EMF" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.
			For example, if an image displayed in an image processing software ("Visio" for example) is copied:

		- an Image control displaying the copied image will be created in the current window, 

		- a metafile file (".EMF" extension) will be created. A file picker is used to specify the file name and path.




- **Text**: A text was copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, a multiline Static control will be created in the current window. This control will display the copied text **without** formatting.
	For example, if a text typed in Word was copied, a multiline Static control will be created in the current window. This control will display the copied text **without** formatting.

- **RTF**: A formatted text was copied to the clipboard. If this option is selected, a multiline Static control in RTF will be created in the current window. This control will display the copied text **with** formatting.
	For example, if text typed in bold and red in Word was copied, a multiline Static control in RTF will be created in the current window. This control will display the copied text **with** formatting (bold and red).

- **Selection of window editor**: One or more elements found in the window editor (edit control, button, window, ...) have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, the copied elements will be created in the window editor. 
	For example, if a selection of controls was copied, these selected controls will be created in the current window.
	**Remark**: This option corresponds to a standard "copy/paste"  of controls.

- **Selection of page editor**: One or more elements found in the page editor (edit control, button, ...) have been copied into the clipboard. If this option is selected, the copied elements will be created in the page editor. 
	For example, if a selection of controls was copied, these selected controls will be created in the current page.
	**Remark**: This option corresponds to a standard "copy/paste"  of controls.





