
## Setup mode
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
Several methods can be used to distribute a WINDEV application:

- to a user directly. The user installs the application on his computer. This application can be a single-user application, a multi-user application, ... The setup is a stand-alone setup.

- installed on a network or a HTTP server. The user installs his application from the network or from an Internet page. The update will be automatically proposed to the user. This application can be a single-user application, a multi-user application, ...




For more details, see [diagram for installing an application](../Editeurs/2028008.md). 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Individual setup
<a name="individual_setup_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>


### Available options
<a name="available_options_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

If you select an individual setup, you can choose between:

- **Standard setup**. The setup program used is the one supplied with WINDEV or a customized version (the WDSetup example corresponds to the source code of the installer and it can be modified).

- **Compact setup**. The size of the generated setup program is optimized in order to be downloaded from Internet.

- [Setup via MSI package](../Editeurs/9000025.md). The setup program uses the standard installer of Windows.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Setup with automatic update
<a name="setup_with_automatic_update_ELTTEXTE000181"></a>


### Available options
<a name="available_options_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

If you select a setup with automatic update, you can choose:

- Setup in local area network (LAN) with "Push" possibly enabled. A first application setup will be performed on the network, in a shared directory. This directory will contain the setup program used by the end users and the reference version used to manage the updates.

- [Setup by HTTP](../Editeurs/9000026.md). A first setup of the application will be performed on an HTTP server. The users will connect to a Web page in order to download the setup program of application.

- [Multisite setup](../Editeurs/2028100.md). This setup is the combination between a local network setup and an HTTP setup. The HTTP setup is used to update the reference setup on the local network. 



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Checking versions
<a name="checking_versions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

Checking the version means:

- select the executable of your application that will be used as reference for updating the applications that are already deployed.

- select the minimum version allowed to operate without update. To force all the users to update the next time they start their application, all you have to do is copy the current version into the minimum version.




For more details, see [Checking the versions](../Editeurs/2028035.md).
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Connected users
<a name="connected_users_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

The management of users allows you to find out from the server:

- the users currently connected to the application, 

- for each connected user:

	- the computer used to start the application, 

	- the version of the application used.







For more details, see [Managing the users of an application with network update](../Editeurs/2028059.md).


