
## Configuring the assisted universal replication
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>
If your application uses assisted universal replication via a .WER file, the setup creation wizard proposes to configure the setup to install the different tools required for this type of replication.

The different steps of this configuration are as follows:

- Location of the .WER file to handle.

- Replication method.

- Definition of the connected mode.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Parameters of the assisted universal replication
<a name="parameters_the_assisted_universal_replication_ELTTEXTE000170"></a>


### .WER file
<a name="wer_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

The first step when configuring the assisted universal replication consists in giving the path of the .WER file to use.

The content of the .WER file can be configured and modified by [ReplicEdit](../ReplicEdit/3526500.md) in the setup creation wizard.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Replication method
<a name="replication_method_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

When preparing the setup program, you can specify the replication method that will be used:

- **Replication via a replication server**. This method is recommended when the replication is performed via an Internet connection. If this option is selected, the next wizard step allows you to configure the parameters of the replication server: server address, username and password. You also have the ability to:

	- publish the replication parameters on the server (setup with automatic update only): if this option is checked, the replication will be directly accessible by the applications.

	- allow these parameters to be modified during the setup: the user of the application will be able to modify the parameters of the replication server.

	- use these values even if they have been customized during a previous setup.

	- install a replication server. In this case, the setup of the application will propose to install the replication server on the computer selected by the user.
			**Caution**: to perform this setup, the setup program must be supplied with the setup package of the replication server. The "Advanced" button is used to select the necessary package. The latest available setup package can also be downloaded from the PC SOFT website.




- **Replication with direct access to the master database**. This method is recommended for example when using an application on a laptop, with a limited connection to the local network (sales person visiting headquarters once a week for example). If this option is selected, the parameters of the master database must be specified:

	- Use the connections defined in the analysis: The parameters of the connections defined in the analysis will be used to access the master database.

	- Use the connections defined in the .WER file: The parameters of the connections defined in the .WER file will be used to access the master database.

	- Define the connection parameters now: The connection parameters are defined immediately in the following step of the wizard.

	- Ask for the connection parameters during the setup: The parameters of the connections are defined by the person who installs the application.




- **Choose the replication method during the setup**. If this method is selected, the parameters of the master database must be specified (same as with "Replication with direct access to the master database").



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Definition of the connected mode
<a name="definition_the_connected_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

When creating the setup program, you have the ability to specify the operating mode of the application in connected mode.

Indeed, when the user has access to the master database, the direct access to the master database can be automatically used instead of the replication ("Allow the application to operate in connected mode"). If this operating mode is selected, you can request the automatic synchronization of data when starting and stopping the application. This mode allows you to work in offline mode with the most up-to-date database.

These options can be modified or not when installing the application. You can also force the use of these options even if they have been already customized.  

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Files installed for the replication
<a name="files_installed_for_the_replication_ELTTEXTE000206"></a>
By default, the following files are installed on the user computer:

|   | Setup directory by default |
| --- | --- |
| Local data files (.fic, .ndx, .mmo) | Documents and Settings\\All Users\\Application Data\\&lt;Application name&gt; |
| Files allowing the replication to be performed | Documents and Settings\\All Users\\Application Data\\\\PC SOFT\\RPL\\&lt;Application name&gt;\\&lt;Application name&gt; |
| Setup settings | Documents and Settings\\&lt;Username&gt;\\Application Data\\WDSETUP\\&lt;Application name&gt; |
| Application (Exe and WX) | Program File\\&lt;Application name&gt; |
| ReplicSynchro and ReplicAdmin | Program Files\\Common Files\\PC SOFT\\28.0\\ReplicSynchro |

**Remark**: ReplicSynchro can be started by the end user via "Start .. PC SOFT tools .. ReplicSynchro".


