


## Setup of a WEBDEV site: Creating library
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000123"></a>
A library (file with a WDL extension) is used to group the resources of the project (pages, queries, ...) in a library.
 WEBDEV proposes two methods for creating a library:

- Method 1: If there is a "Library" project configuration in the project, simply select this project configuration and generate it: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Generate configuration" and select "Generate current configuration".

- Method 2: Automatic generation of the library when deploying a dynamic WEBDEV site (most common case).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating a library when deploying a dynamic site
<a name="creating_library_when_deploying_dynamic_site_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>


### Creating the library when the setup is created
<a name="creating_the_library_when_the_setup_created_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site".

2. In the wizard, select the elements to include in the library. The library and the current project will have the same name. You can:

	- **Add elements** ("Add" button): 
			Any type of file can be added to the list of elements inserted into the library: images, text files, etc.

	- **Remove elements** ("Remove" button): 
			The corresponding files and their dependencies will be ignored in the library.

	- **Create the library from an existing library description** ("WDU" button): 
			When creating a WEBDEV library, a ".WDU" file with the same name is automatically created. This file contains all the references of the elements included in the library. All you have to do is select the WDU file containing the elements to take into account.




3. If your project uses components, the next step offerss to include these components in the library. Therefore, the files of the components are not directly visible in the files installed.

4. In the next step, specify the languages that will be included in the library. This option is used to reduce the size of the library for example. Only the current language is proposed by default. You have the ability to select:

	- One of the languages used by the project.

	- All project languages.

	- The current language in the editor.




5. In the next step, specify the characteristics of the library. This information is as follows:

	- the name of the company. For example, the name of the publisher.

	- a short description of the application purpose. For example: "Inventory management".

	- the version number of the site. This number is used to identify the different versions of the libraries created for the same site. This version number can be incremented whenever the library is re-created ("Automatically increment the version at each creation").




6. The library is automatically generated.

7. Follow the different steps of [the setup creation wizard](../Editeurs/2028039.md).





