
## Deploying a site on a PC SOFT test server
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000217"></a>
PC SOFT proposes to host your test sites. The setup is easily performed, directly from the environment. 

Once your site is developed, you have the ability to run its test directly. 

**Remarks**: 

- The site must be developed in dynamic WEBDEV or in AWP mode. 

- The site must use an HFSQL Classic or HFSQL Client/Server database. 

- The server used is a Windows server. No Linux site can be deployed. 

- You have the ability to deploy Webservices. 

- The following types of sites are not taken into account: 

	- The sites developed in PHP.

	- The SaaS sites. 

	- The static sites. 







**Limitation**: 100 simultaneous connections are assigned to each developer account. The distribution of the number of connections per site must not exceed this limit.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTTEXTE000247"></a>
The different steps for installing a dynamic WEBDEV site on the test hosting server of PC SOFT are as follows:

1. [Creating a developer account if necessary](#NOTE3_1).

2. [Creating a hosting account if necessary](#NOTE4_1).

3. [Entering the site parameters](#NOTE5_1).

4. [Selecting the files to install](../Editeurs/2028058.md). 

5. [Automatic modification](../Editeurs/2028048.md). 

6. [Site parameters](../Editeurs/2028051.md). 

7. File transfer and setup. 
	Error messages can be displayed at different steps of remote setup. For more details, see [Errors during a setup by FTP](../Editeurs/2028057.md).

8. When the setup is completed, the wizard provides the command line used to start the site. This line can be copied (if necessary) into the clipboard via the popup menu.








<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Creating a developer account
<a name="creating_developer_account_ELTTEXTE000271"></a>


### Developer account
<a name="developer_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000070"></a>

A developer account can be created: 

- to participate to the PC SOFT forums.

- to write annotations in the online documentation.

- to deploy a site on the test hosting server of PC SOFT. A hosting account for test is also required. 




If you already have a developer account, this account can be re-used to install your sites.


### Necessary elements
<a name="necessary_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

**The following elements are required to create the developer account**:

1. A valid email address. 
	**Caution**: When creating the developer account, the email address supplied can be used once only. The same email address cannot be used to create several developer accounts.

2. The serial number of your WEBDEV product. 




When validating the creation of the developer account, a confirmation email is sent with a link used to enable the account.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Creating a test hosting account
<a name="creating_test_hosting_account_ELTTEXTE000301"></a>


### Test hosting account
<a name="test_hosting_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000097"></a>

A test hosting account can be created to deploy a site on the test hosting server of PC SOFT. 

If you already have a test hosting account, this account can be re-used to deploy your sites.


### Necessary elements
<a name="necessary_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000104"></a>

**The following elements are required to create the hosting account**:

1. A PCSOFT developer account.

2. A domain name. This domain name will be unique. It corresponds to the root of all the sites that will be deployed.
	For example: the root given by the PCSOFT domain will be http:\\\\pcsoft.webdev-test.com\\MyTestSite
	**Caution**: The domain name must contain at least 5 characters.




When validating the creation of the hosting account, a confirmation email is sent.




### Resources associated with a hosting account
<a name="resources_associated_with_hosting_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

Once the account is created, you have the ability to access the following resources:

- A custom FTP access. 
	The access by FTP to your domain is performed with: 

	- the entire domain name ("pcsoft.webdev-test.com" for example).

	- the domain name ("pcsoft" in our example).

	- the password that was specified when creating the account.
			This allows you to send files by FTP to your site.




- A secure Web tool to manage your sites ([https://www.webdev-test.com/WDAdminWeb](https://www.webdev-test.com/WDAdminWeb)). You must enter your domain name and your password to connect yourself. This allows you to manage the different sites installed:

	- modify the maximum number of authorized connections

	- delete a site

	- modify the timeout for an automatic disconnection

	- enable/disable the management of LOGs for the traffic statistics

	- ...
			These options are identical to the ones available for a real deployment.













<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Site parameters
<a name="site_parameters_ELTTEXTE000337"></a>
Once the developer account and the hosting account are created, you must specify in the WEBDEV wizard: 

- the domain name, 

- the password, 


and validate to install the site. 

The "Advanced parameters" button is used to define the deployment parameters: 

- In the "General" tab, specify:

	- the deployment name of the site (the project name by default).

	- the name of the associated domain for managing a sitemap file.

	- the name of the folder containing the data files (the name of the project by default).

	- the name of the deployment profile (specified by default) in order to save the setup parameters.




- In the "Advanced" tab, specify: 

	- the FTP parameters, 

	- the parameters of HTTP/HTTPS proxy.








