


## WDInst: including an "autorun" in a setup on CD 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>
An "autorun" can be run (or not) when the setup CD is inserted into the drive of the setup computer. This "autorun" is used to automatically start:

- the setup program.

- a specific menu window. The setup editor WDInst allows you to configure this window.
	This menu can start the setup program, display a "Readme" file, open an Internet site, ...




By default, no "autorun" is run when inserting the CD.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000184"></a>


### Managing the autorun
<a name="managing_the_autorun_ELTPARAGRAPHE000025"></a>

The management of an "autorun" is performed in WDInst (the setup editor). 

To start WDInst, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

The setup program creation wizard does not allow for an "autorun".
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Including an "autorun" on the setup CD
<a name="including_autorun_the_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

To include an "autorun" on the setup CD:

1. In WDInst, select "Setup parameters .. Advanced parameters".

2. Select the type of "autorun" to include ("Action performed when inserting the CD"). You can: 

	- run the installer automatically.

	- run an automatic execution menu. 







**Remark**: No "autorun" is included by default.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Configuring the menu of "autorun"
<a name="configuring_the_menu_autorun_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

To configure the menu of the "autorun":

1. In WDInst, select "Setup parameters .. Advanced parameters".

2. Select "Start an automatic execution menu". 

3. Click the "Parameters" button.

4. Configure the different options of the menu in the configuration tabs:

	- **General tab**: Used to define:

		- the window title. This title will be displayed in the title bar of the window. Type the application name: "WDScooter".

		- the large title and its color. This title will be the first line displayed in the window. Specify the application purpose: "Inventory management".
						**Caution**: The maximum number of characters is limited. Taking the letters "i" and "m" as reference, the large title can contain between 15 and 60 characters.

		- the sub-title and its color. This title will be displayed below the large title. Enter a welcome message: "Welcome to the setup program".
						**Caution**: The maximum number of characters is limited. Taking the letters "i" and "m" as reference, the sub-title can contain between 30 and 100 characters.

		- the window background. This parameter can correspond to:

			- a *solid color*. Select the background color.

			- an *image*. This image can be tiled or stretched. Select the image to use.




- **Buttons tab**: The menu window can contain up to 8 **buttons**.

	1. For each button, specify:

		- the ***caption***. This caption will be centered in the button.

		- the ***description***. This description will be displayed in the left section of the window when the corresponding button is hovered by the mouse cursor.

		- the ***command*** run or the ***document*** opened by this button. Each button can:

			- start an executable file. For example: "Install.EXE". To be started, this file must be available on the CD or it must be found in one of the directories defined in the PATH of the setup computer.

			- display a document. For example: "Readme.DOC". To be displayed, this file must be available on the CD or it must be found in one of the directories defined in the PATH of the setup computer.

			- open an Internet site. For example: "http://www.windev.com". To open this site, the setup computer must be equipped with a permanent connection to Internet.

			- start an explorer. "E:\\MyApp" for example. To do so, specify the directory onto which the explorer must open in the "Command/Document" column.




The "Test" button is used to check the parameters chosen for the automatic runtime program of the CD. The menu is displayed with the specified buttons, the images and the configured colors. 


