


## Setup wizard: Steps for creating a WINDEV application setup program
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Start
<a name="start_ELTTEXTE000210"></a>
The setup program creation wizard allows you to define all the settings of your setup program.

To start this wizard:

- on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Setup procedure" and select "Create setup procedure".

- start WDInst: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDInst". In the WDInst editor, select "File .. New".






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTTEXTE000234"></a>
The different steps for creating the setup program are as follows:

1. [Selecting the application to install](../Editeurs/2028041.md) (only if the wizard is started from WDInst and if no project is open in WINDEV).

2. Creating the executable file. For more details, see [Creating an executable](../Editeurs/2025002.md). If you have just created the executable, click "2. Setup" in the setup program creation wizard. If necessary, click "Access setup options" in the window that appears. 

3. Selecting the [setup mode](../Editeurs/2028085.md) to create.

	- [Setup on a Private Store](../Editeurs/9000203.md). 

	- Individual/Stand-alone setup (standard, compact, MSI).

	- Setup with automatic update.
			Three setup modes with automatic update are available:

		- [Local network setup with "Push" enabled](../Editeurs/2028098.md).

		- [Setup via Internet](../Editeurs/9000026.md).

		- [Multisite setup](../Editeurs/2028100.md).




4. [Installation directory selection](../Editeurs/2028047.md). 

5. [Selection of files to install](../Editeurs/2028031.md) (and computers where each file must be installed - setup with update only).

6. [Framework installation](../Editeurs/2028031.md).

7. Installation of [optional elements for the database](../Editeurs/2028086.md). Depending on the selected elements, you will have to perform the following operations in the following steps of the wizard:

	- Configure the automatic modification of data files.

	- Reindex the HFSQL files during the setup.

	- [Include the setup of an HFSQL server](../Editeurs/2028081.md).

	- Deploy the HFSQL Client/Server files.

	- Customize the path of data files during setup.

	- Customize the path of groupware files during setup.

	- Include MDAC in the setup.

	- Include the ODBC driver for HFSQL.
			




8. [Selection of additional modules](../Editeurs/2028045.md). Depending on the selected modules, you will have to perform the following operations in the following steps of the wizard:

	- Install the help for the User Macro-Code.

	- Include the setup of Reports & Queries.

	- Display a license agreement.

	- Display a ReadMe file at the end of setup.

	- Configure the automatic modification of data files.

	- Choose the optional tools that will be included in the setup.

	- Include the uninstaller.




9. [Selection of the installer skin template](../Editeurs/2028103.md). 

10. [Selection of languages available during setup](../Editeurs/2028036.md). For each language, you can define the title of the main window and [Customize the setup program](../Editeurs/2028061.md).

11. [Selection of the setup support](../Editeurs/2028040.md).

12. [Setup program generation](../Editeurs/2028055.md).





