
## Setup via physical media
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000135"></a>
A setup by physical media allows you to give to the hosting company a media containing all the files required to install the site on a server. For this type of deployment, the version of the application server must be identical to the version of the physical media. If the version of the application server is more recent, a deployment by FTP must be performed.

A wizard allows the person who deploys the site to configure the different setup options.

**Remark**: To install your dynamic WEBDEV site, the hosting company must:

1. Install the WEBDEV application server on the Web server (if necessary).
	Remark: A license of the WEBDEV application server is required for each dynamic WEBDEV site installed.

2. Install your WEBDEV site by running the **Install.exe** executable of your setup.




**Caution**: This deployment mode does not ensure compatibliity.: A site developed in version N cannot be deployed on a server in version N+1, N+2, etc. For exzmple, a site developed in version 20 cannot be deployed on an application server in version 28. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000159"></a>
To create a setup by physical media: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site".

2. Create the library if necessary. 

3. Select "Setup by physical media". 

4. [Select the files to install](../Editeurs/2028058.md).

5. [Configure the automatic modification](../Editeurs/2028048.md)

6. [Configure the site](../Editeurs/2028051.md).

7. Select the information regarding the customization of the setup:

	- **The setup tool used**: WBSetup is proposed by default. WBSetup is a wizard for installing WEBDEV sites. This setup program is available in English and French. In order for the setup program to support additional languages, the "WDSetup" project must be customized before creating the setup program. This project (supplied with the WEBDEV examples) corresponds to the standard setup program of the WEBDEV applications. This project is a WINDEV project. For more details, see [Using a custom WBSetup](../Editeurs/2028096.md).

	- **The default setup directory of the site**: This directory corresponds to the directory where the site files will be installed (libraries, pages, style sheets, images, ...). The "&lt;site&gt;\\&lt;Project name&gt;" path is proposed by default, where &lt;site&gt; corresponds to the directory associated with the different sites of the WEBDEV account to which the site will be associated. We recommend that you use pseudo-directories. This directory can be modified when installing the site.

	- **The default setup directory of the site data**: This directory corresponds to the directory where the data files of the site will be installed. The "&lt;data&gt;\\&lt;Project name&gt;" path is proposed by default where &lt;data&gt; corresponds to the data directory associated with the different sites of the WEBDEV account to which the site will be associated. We recommend that you use pseudo-directories. This directory can be modified when installing the site.
			The following pseudo-directories can be used:

		- ***&lt;webroot&gt;***: Root directory of documents of the Web server

		- ***&lt;site&gt;***: Home directory of the sites for the WEBDEV user account defined by the hosting company. If an account is assigned to you, all your dynamic sites will be installed in this directory.

		- ***&lt;data&gt;***: Home directory of the data files for the WEBDEV user account defined by the hosting company. If an account is assigned to you, all the data files of your dynamic sites will be installed in this directory.




8. Specify the languages supported by the setup as well as the parameters corresponding to each language.
	By default, WBSetup supports French and English. To support additional languages, we recommend that you customize WBSetup. For more details, see [Using a custom WBSetup](../Editeurs/2028096.md).
	For each language proposed during the setup, specify:

	- **The introduction caption**. This caption is used to start the setup in the desired language. It corresponds to the setup language by default.

	- **The license of your site**. The license must be a file in txt format, it will be displayed when starting the setup of your site. In order for the text to be displayed in the language chosen at the beginning of setup, a license file must be created for each language. The setup will be performed only the license is validated by the person who is installing your dynamic WEBDEV site

	- **Readme file of your site**. The "Readme" file can have one of the following formats: txt, htm, doc, hlp, pdf 
			Regardless of the selected format, the user must have a software allowing him to view this file. In order for the "Readme" file to be displayed in the language chosen at the beginning of setup, a "Readme" file must be created for each language.




9. Specify the generation directory of the setup. You can choose to clear (or not) the content of the directory during the generation.

10. Validate. The setup program of the site is created. You can:

	- deploy the site (to run the test of setup for example)

	- open the explorer (to copy the setup directory to a CD for example).








