


## WDInst: grouping the files to install 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000169"></a>
By default, when generating the setup program, the files to install are compressed in a single archive file (".WDZ") in order to be easily distributed.

When running the setup program, these files are automatically decompressed, extracted from the archive and copied to the setup computer. You also have the ability not to compress the files to install (see [Copying and compressing one or more files](../Editeurs/2028033.md)).

The setup editor WDInst allows you to group the files to install (files grouped by type for example). In this case:

- The generation of the setup editor creates as many archive files as the number of groups. The name of the created archive files corresponds to "&lt;GroupName>.WDZ".

- The files that belong to no group will be archived in the "__WDInst.WDZ" file.




No group of files is created by default.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## The groups
<a name="the_groups_ELTTEXTE000193"></a>


### Benefits of the groups
<a name="benefits_the_groups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

- Optimizing the generation of the setup program for the updates. 
	If a group contains no file modified since the last generation, the corresponding archive (".WDZ" file) will not be re-created.

- Organization of the files to install (create a group for the image files and another group for the video files for example).

- Simplified use of [components](../Editeurs/2028032.md) ("Multimedia" component associated with the "image" and "video" groups for example).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000217"></a>


### Manage groups
<a name="manage_groups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

The groups are handled in the setup editor WDInst. To start this editor, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

The setup program creation wizard cannot be used to manage groups of files.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Creating a new group of files
<a name="creating_new_group_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

The creation of a group is performed by associating one of the files to install with a new group.

To create a group and to associate it with a file:

1. Select the file that must be associated with the group in the "List of setup files" window.

2. In the "File description" window, display the "Option" tab.

3. Click the "New" button.

4. Type the name of group of files and validate.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Associating one or more files to a group of files
<a name="associating_one_more_files_group_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

To associate one or more files with a group of files: 

1. Select the files to associate in the "List of setup files" window.
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Go to the "Option" tab of the "File description" window.

3. Select the associated group of files ("Group").



<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Associating one or more new files to a group of files
<a name="associating_one_more_new_files_group_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

1. Select "Edit .. Add files".

2. Select the files to add. For more details, see [Adding one or more files](../Editeurs/2028066.md).

3. Select the associated group of files by clicking the "Other" button.

4. Validate the addition of files.



<a name="NOTE3_5"></a>


### Dissociating one or more files from a group of files
<a name="dissociating_one_more_files_from_group_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

To dissociate one or more files from a group of files: 

1. Select the files to dissociate in the "List of setup files" window. 
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Go to the "Option" tab of the "File description" window.

3. Select "&lt;No group&gt;" in the "Group" combo box.



<a name="NOTE3_6"></a>


### Viewing the files associated with a group of files
<a name="viewing_the_files_associated_with_group_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000120"></a>

To view the files associated with a group of files, in the "List of setup files" window, select the requested group in the "Displayed group" combo box.


