


## WDInst : generating the setup program 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000224"></a>
Generating the setup program is used to create the setup program according to the characteristics specified in the setup editor WDInst. To start WDInst, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

The setup program will be generated in a directory in order to be copied onto different media.

By default, the setup program is generated in the "Install" subdirectory of your application.

To generate the setup program, select "File .. Generate" from WDInst.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Support for the setup program
<a name="support_for_the_setup_program_ELTTEXTE000248"></a>


### Support for the setup program
<a name="support_for_the_setup_program_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

The available media for the setup program are as follows:

- ***Single directory***
	The setup program is created in a single directory.

- ***Self-extracting executable***
	The setup program is created as a self-extracting executable. When this executable is run on the user computers, the setup program is automatically decompressed and started.
	This solution is recommended if the setup program is distributed via Internet.

- ***Support with autorun***
	The setup program is created in a single directory in order to be copied onto a CD-ROM, DVD-ROM, USB key, ... 
	In this case, you have the ability to enter the parameters for the automatic execution. For more details, see [Including an autorun](../Editeurs/2028015.md). 

- ***Multiple directories***
	The files of the setup program are grouped into several subdirectories. The size of the files contained in each subdirectory does not exceed the specified size (1.44 MB by default). Then, the content of each subdirectory can be copied.




To help you choose the medium adapted to your setup mode, see the [Summary table for installing a WINDEV application](../Editeurs/2028005.md).

When creating the setup media, you can:

- **Clear the directory before generating the setup**: If this option is checked, the content of the directory where the setup program is generated will be cleared before generating a new setup. This option allows you to delete any useless file.

- **Protect the setup via a password**: This option allows you to specify the password that will be requested when installing the application.

- **Sign the setup with the certificate**: To guarantee the integrity of the setup pack, you have the ability to sign the setup. All you have to do is select the certificate to use. The certificates available on the current computer, in the personal stored or Windows certificates, are automatically proposed. 




Remark: For a setup via a Private Store, only the "Self-extracting executable" is available. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Generating the setup program
<a name="generating_the_setup_program_ELTTEXTE000272"></a>


### Generating the setup program
<a name="generating_the_setup_program_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

To generate the setup program:

1. Select "File .. Generate".

2. Select the media for the setup program. The different media are presented in the above paragraph. To help you choose the medium adapted to your setup mode, see the [Summary table for installing a WINDEV application](../Editeurs/2028005.md).

3. Each time the setup program is generated, the setup editor WDInst creates a ".WXF" temporary file. This file contains the description of the setup program. This file can be used to run the test of a custom setup program ([custom "WDSetup" project](../Editeurs/2028037.md)). To keep this file, check "Keep the WDX file for checking a custom WDSetup" ("Advanced" tab) 
	For more details, see [WXF file and WDF file](#NOTE4_1).

4. Select the characteristics of the setup program according to the selected setup media: 
	

| Setup media | Characteristics |
| --- | --- |
| <br><br>	- Single directory<br><br><br> | <br><br>	- Modify (if necessary) the directory in which the setup program will be generated.<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>	- Self-extracting executable<br><br><br> | <br><br>	- Modify (if necessary) the directory into which the self-extracting executable will be generated.<br><br>	- Enter the name of the executable to create (without extension).<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>	- Support with autorun<br><br><br> | <br><br>	- Modify (if necessary) the directory in which the setup program will be generated.<br><br><br>Specify (if necessary) the parameters for automatic execution:<br><br>	- Icon of CD.<br><br>	- Action performed when inserting the CD. For more details, see [Automatic execution of CD](../Editeurs/2028015.md).<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>	- Multiple directories<br><br><br> | <br><br>	- Modify (if necessary) the base directory for generating the setup program.<br><br>	- Select the maximum size of all the files found in each subdirectory. The subdirectories will be named "DISK &lt;Directory#>".<br><br><br> |



5. Validate the generation of setup program.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## WXF file and WDF file
<a name="wxf_file_and_wdf_file_ELTTEXTE000296"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000152"></a>

Each time the setup program is generated, WDInst creates two files containing the description of the development program:

- **a ".WDF" file**. This file is used to edit the description of the setup program in WDInst. By default, this file is named "&lt;ApplicationName&gt;.WDF" and it is saved in the directory of the application on the development computer.

- **a ".WXF" file**. This file is used to check a custom setup program (custom "WDSetup" project). By default, this file is compressed and archived in the "INSTALL.WDZ" file, then it is deleted from the generation computer.




If you are using a custom setup program (custom "WDSetup" project), you must keep the ".WXF" file in order to run the test of this custom setup program. Indeed, the custom setup program retrieves from the ".WXF" file all the options of the setup program that have been specified in WDInst (the setup editor).

In this case, this file will be named "&lt;ApplicationName&gt;.WXF" and it will be saved in the directory of the project to install.

**Remark**: For more details, see [Using a custom WDSetup](../Editeurs/2028037.md).
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Keeping the ".WXF" file
<a name="keeping_the_wxf_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000171"></a>

To keep the ".WXF" file, check "Keep the WXF file for checking a custom WDSetup" when generating the setup program ("File .. Generate" in WDInst, "Advanced" tab).


