


## Importing a WINDEV window into a WEBDEV site
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>
The Windows windows developed with WINDEV (version 7.5 and later) can be imported into a WEBDEV site. The windows will be automatically converted into WEBDEV pages. The controls and the code of the window are retrieved.

Importing WINDEV windows allows you to save a great amount of time when migrating a Windows application into an Internet or Intranet site.

**Caution**: The pages resulting from the import may look a little different from the  initial windows. Sometimes, their interface and they code must be revised.

**Remarks**: 

- You also have the ability to copy the window controls into a page directly. For more details, see [Copy between the editors](../Editeurs/9000137.md).

- From version 24, the webification wizard allows you to transform a WINDEV application into a website. For more details, see [Transform your existing WINDEV applications into websites](../Editeurs/9500225.md). 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>


### Importing a WINDEV window into a WEBDEV site
<a name="importing_windev_window_into_webdev_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

To import a WINDEV window into a WEBDEV site:

1. Open the WEBDEV project into which the WINDEV window must be imported.

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "WINDEV or WINDEV Mobile elements".

3. Select the WINDEV window to import (".WDW" file). The WINDEV window is automatically converted into a WEBDEV page.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Importing the WINDEV elements into the WEBDEV page
<a name="importing_the_windev_elements_into_the_webdev_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

The following elements are not imported into the created WEBDEV page:

- WINDEV controls that do not exist in WEBDEV (Slider control, Progress Bar control, etc.).

- WLanguage functions, properties, keywords not available in WEBDEV (**OpenWindow** function, **MyWindow** keyword, etc.).

- WINDEV skin templates. If the imported window is associated with a skin template, only the images associated with the page and its controls will be imported.





