


## Importing DreamWeaver elements into a WEBDEV site
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>
WEBDEV allows you to import Dreamweaver elements into your WEBDEV site. You have the ability to import: 

- [a Dreamweaver library](#NOTE2_1): the library will be automatically converted into control template. 

- [a Dreamweaver page template](#NOTE2_2): the Dreamweaver page template will be automatically converted into WEBDEV page template. 

- [a Dreamweaver page](#NOTE2_3): the page is imported with its libraries and templates. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000190"></a>


### Importing a Dreamweaver library
<a name="importing_dreamweaver_library_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

To importer a Dreamweaver library into a WEBDEV site:

1. Open the WEBDEV project into which the page must be imported.

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "A Dreamweaver library".

3. Specify the path or URL of the library to import (".lbi" file). The preview is displayed.

4. Select the import mode. 

5. Validate. The library is automatically included in the current WEBDEV project as control template.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Importing a Dreamweaver page template
<a name="importing_dreamweaver_page_template_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

To import an HTML page into a WEBDEV site:

1. Open the WEBDEV project into which the page must be imported.

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "A Dreamweaver page template".

3. Specify the path or URL of the template to import. The preview is displayed.

4. Select the import mode. 

5. Validate. The page template is automatically included in the current WEBDEV project. If the template uses a library or a "template", these elements will be automatically detected. 

6. If the control templates or the page templates are already found in the project, these elements are automatically re-used by the imported template. 

7. If the control templates or the pages templates are not found in the project: 

	- If the sources of the libraries and templates are available, the import of these elements is automatically proposed. 

	- If the sources of the libraries and templates are not available or if the import was refused, a reverse analysis of the page is performed: the necessary page templates and control templates are automatically created and associated with the page.






<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Importing a Dreamweaver page
<a name="importing_dreamweaver_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

To import an HTML page into a WEBDEV site:

1. Open the WEBDEV project into which the page must be imported.

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "An HTML page".
	**Remark**: You also have the ability to Drag and Drop the page to the page editor of WEBDEV.

3. Specify the path or the URL of the HTML page to import. The preview of the HTML page to import is displayed.

4. Select the import mode. The styles and the images associated with the imported page can be managed according to two methods:

	- If "I import an independent page into the project" is selected:

		- a WEBDEV style sheet (".WWS" file) is created and automatically associated with the imported page. This style sheet contains all the CSS styles of the initial page.

		- the different images associated with the imported page will be copied to a specific directory ("&lt;PageName&gt;" subdirectory of the default project directory).




- If "I import several pages of the same site into the project" is selected:

	- the styles of the imported page are automatically added to the style sheet associated with the project.

	- the different images associated with the imported page will be copied into the "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory of the project.

5. Validate. The HTML page is automatically included in the current WEBDEV project. If the page uses a library or a "template", these elements are automatically detected. 

6. If the control templates or the page templates are already found in the project, these elements are automatically re-used by the imported page. 

7. If the control templates or the pages templates are not found in the project: 

	- If the source of the libraries and templates is available, the import of these elements is automatically proposed. 

	- If the source of the libraries and templates is not available or if the import was refused, a reverse analysis of the page is performed: the necessary page templates and control templates are automatically created and associated with the page.








