


## Importing a WINDEV window into a Mobile project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
The WINDEV windows not having the same format in WINDEV Mobile, WINDEV Mobile gives you the ability to import a WINDEV window into a WINDEV Mobile project.

**Reminder**: The analyses, queries, sets of procedures, reports, classes have the same format in WINDEV and in WINDEV Mobile. These elements can be shared between a standard WINDEV project and a WINDEV Mobile project. For more details, see [Sharing WINDEV elements](../WDLang3/3023045.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000145"></a>
To import a WINDEV window into a WINDEV Mobile project:

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "WINDEV elements".

2. Select the window file (WDW extension) to import.

3. The selected window is automatically opened in WINDEV Mobile. To include this window in the current project, all you have to do is save it. The window is saved in WPW format.




**Remark**: The size of the imported window corresponds to its initial size. It is necessary to check the UI and window size in order to adapt them to the platform (Android, iOS, etc.).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000169"></a>


### Operations performed during the import
<a name="operations_performed_during_the_import_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

- The controls that do not exist in WINDEV Mobile are automatically deleted (toolbar, ...).

- The list of errors that occurred (functions that do not exist in WINDEV Mobile for example) is displayed in the "Compilation errors" pane.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Dependency of the files
<a name="dependency_the_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

The windows are imported with their dependencies: all the files linked to the imported window are also imported. The images are automatically converted into a format supported by WINDEV Mobile. For example, the background image of a window is automatically imported and converted into GIF format.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Differences when executing events of a window
<a name="differences_when_executing_events_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

The differences between the Windows operating systems and the systems for mobile devices result in a different management of the events associated with the windows. The order of execution of the WLanguage events associated with the window is different in WINDEV and in WINDEV Mobile.

When importing a WINDEV window, if your code is based on the order in which the WLanguage events associated with the window are run, check whether the application has the expected behavior (in test mode, simulator or at runtime).
<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Copying controls between WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile windows
<a name="copying_controls_between_windev_and_windev_mobile_windows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

You can copy controls from a window between WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile projects.


