


## Importing a WEBDEV project into WINDEV
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000196"></a>
In most cases, a site is linked to an application. 

WINDEV proposes a feature for importing WEBDEV sites or WEBDEV pages.

You have the ability to import the entire project or a single page. The pages are changed into windows. The Server and Browser codes are grouped.

The elements without equivalent in WINDEV (JavaScript code for example) are imported as comments or as separated elements.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000220"></a>


### Importing a WEBDEV project
<a name="importing_webdev_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To import a WEBDEV project:

1. Start WINDEV.

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "From WEBDEV .. A WEBDEV project".. The import wizard starts.

3. Select the WEBDEV project to import. Go to the next step.

4. A new WINDEV project will be created from the imported WEBDEV project. The WEBDEV project will not be modified. Specify the characteristics of the new WINDEV project:

	- Project name.

	- Project description.

	- Project directory.




5. Go to the next step.

6. If the WEBDEV project is linked to an analysis, you can:

	- Share the analysis with the initial project: the same analysis will be used by the WEBDEV project and by the new WINDEV project.

	- Copy the analysis into the directory of the new project: the analysis will be duplicated. Each project (WINDEV and WEBDEV) will evolve with its own analysis

	- Use no analysis: the analysis is ignored.




7. Go to the next step.

8. If the WEBDEV project contains elements that can be shared with WINDEV (classes, sets of procedures, reports, queries), the import wizard allows you to:

	- share these elements. These elements will not be physically copied into the new WEBDEV project but they will be accessible from the project.

	- copy these elements into the new WEBDEV project. These elements will evolve independently in each project.




9. Validate. The import is automatically performed: the new WINDEV project is created.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Importing WEBDEV elements
<a name="importing_webdev_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

To import WEBDEV elements (pages, ...):

1. Open the WINDEV project where the import must be performed.  

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "From WEBDEV .. WEBDEV elements". The import wizard starts.

3. Select the WEBDEV project containing the elements to import or select the WEBDEV files to import. Go to the next step.

4. Select the pages to import.

5. If the WEBDEV project contains elements that can be shared with WINDEV (classes, sets of procedures, reports, queries), the import wizard allows you to:

	- share these elements. These elements will not be physically copied into the WEBDEV project but they will be accessible from the project.

	- copy these elements into the WEBDEV project. These elements will evolve independently in each project.




6. Validate. The import is automatically performed.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Conversions performed when importing a WEBDEV project
<a name="conversions_performed_when_importing_webdev_project_ELTTEXTE000250"></a>
When WEBDEV projects or WEBDEV pages are imported into a WINDEV project:

- the following controls are not imported: IFrame, frameset, site map path, pager, ... All the controls not available in WINDEV are replaced with a caption indicating "&lt;Not imported&gt;"

- the thumbnails, the clickable images and the images are imported as images.

- the cells are imported either as images or as captions.

- the links are changed into buttons

- the actions for page opening are automatically replaced by the opening code of the corresponding window.

- the internal pages are changed into internal windows.

- the codes not supported in WINDEV are commented out (JavaScript code, PHP code, ...)

- the following functions (specific to WEBDEV) are automatically replaced with their equivalent in WINDEV:
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| **WEBDEV function** | **WINDEV function** |
| PageRefresh | WinRedraw |
| PageDisplay | Open |
| FramesetDisplay | Open |
| FramesetRefresh | Open |
| FileToPage | FileToScreen |
| PageParameter | CommandLine |


	The functions specific to WEBDEV that are not replaced trigger compilation errors. The code of the application must be reviewed and modified in order to operate in Windows.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Importing a WEBDEV PHP project into a WINDEV project
<a name="importing_webdev_php_project_into_windev_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000142"></a>

When importing a WEBDEV PHP project into a WINDEV project, the following elements are not imported:

- The code of buttons, 

- Project code.




When importing a table, display problems may occur.


