


## Developing 64-bit sites
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000180"></a>
Recent computers (servers and desktop computers) are now equipped with "64-bit" operating systems. 

The main difference between a "32-bit" and a "64-bit" system is as follows: in "64-bit", the applications and the system no longer have memory allocation limitations. 

In "32-bit" configurations the operating system is limited to 4 GB, while in "64-bit", there is nearly no limit (the limit is set to 18 billions GB). 

**Operating mode of 32-bit/64-bit sites**: A site compiled in 64-bit can be used with a 32-bit or 64-bit server. A 64-bit server can only display 64-bit sites. If the site was not generated in 64-bit, an error will occur when the site is started.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000204"></a>


### Enabling the 64-bit mode
<a name="enabling_the_64bit_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To switch a WEBDEV site from 32-bit to 64-bit:

1. Open the 32-bit WEBDEV project in the editor. 

2. Display the description of the project configuration corresponding to the site. One of the following methods can be used: 

	- select "Description" in the context menu of the project configuration ("Project explorer" pane). 

	- on the "Project" tab, in the "Project configuration" group, click "Current configuration".




3. In the "Compatibility" tab, check (if necessary) "Enable the compilation errors for the 64-bit compatibility". 

4. Validate. 




**Remark**: From version 16, the sites are created with the 64-bit option enabled by default. 
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Compilation error management mode
<a name="compilation_error_management_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

64-bit errors are enabled by default for sites, components, libraries and Webservices. 
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Compilation errors specific to the 64-bit mode
<a name="compilation_errors_specific_the_64bit_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

If the "32-bit" application was using Windows APIs or external DLLs, the switch to "64-bit" mode may generate compilation errors. These compilation errors are specific to the "64-bit" mode. 

The most common error consists in using an "integer" variable to store a memory address.
 
On 64-bit machines, pointers take up 8 bytes of memory, whereas on 32-bit machines, they take up 4 bytes. 
In this case, if a "standard" integer is used, the application may access a truncated memory address, therefore an invalid address. 

To avoid this problem, simply use the WLanguage [System Integer](../Motscles/1514049.md) type: this type uses an 8-byte integer in 64-bit and a 4-byte integer in 32-bit! 

**Tips**: 

- Don't forget to check that the APIs used exist in "64-bit" mode. And make sure that the DLL does not have a different name in "64-bit" mode and that its operating mode is identical. 
	If differences are noticed, you have the ability to use [In64bitMode](../WDLang1/1000019491.md) to call the API corresponding to the current system. 

- In 64-bit, if a value that is too large is assigned to a 1, 2, 4 or 8-byte Integer variable, the value of the variable will not be the same as in 32-bit.  





### Deploying a site compatible with the 64-bit mode
<a name="deploying_site_compatible_with_the_64bit_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

The method for deploying a site compatible with the 64-bit mode is the same as the method for deploying a 32-bit site: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site". For more details, see [Deploying a WEBDEV site](../Editeurs/2028039.md).

**Remark**: A site compiled in 64-bit can be used with a 32-bit or 64-bit server. A 64-bit server can only display 64-bit sites. If the site was not compiled with the "64-bit" option, an error will be displayed when the site is started.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Limits
<a name="limits_ELTTEXTE000246"></a>


### Different limitations
<a name="different_limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000111"></a>

- [Hasp](../WDLang1/3013038.md) is not available in 64-bit.

- **NetXXX functions**: Only the client part is available in 64-bit, and is compatible with a 32-bit server. The server part ([NetStartServer](../WDLang3/3056013.md) and [NetEndServer](../WDLang3/3056024.md)) is not available.

- **64-bit external languages**: only C and C++ are available.





### Registry and system files
<a name="registry_and_system_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000126"></a>

- **Registry**: On a 64-bit system, the 32-bit applications write to the registry from the following branch: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Wow6432Node

- **Access to the system files**: On a 64-bit system, the 32-bit applications use different system directories. 
	For example, an access to the "\\Windows\\system32\\" directory will be performed in this folder from a 64-bit executable. 
	On the contrary, from a 32-bit executable, the access will be performed in the "\\Windows\\SysWOW64" folder. 





