


## Project description: Project tab
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000220"></a>
The project description window allows you to configure various elements of your project. This window includes the following tabs:

- The **"Project"** tab, which allows you to enter general information about the project

- The "Analysis" tab, which is used to associate an analysis with the project and/or with a UML model

- The ["Files"](../Editeurs/2030052.md) tab, which allows you to enter information about the data files used by the application (only if the project is bound to an analysis).

- The "Live data" tab, which allows you to configure how the data from the data files is displayed in the different editors.

- The ["Languages"](../Editeurs/9500219.md) tab, which is used to configure the different languages used by the project as well as the options to be used for each language.

- The ["Style"](../Editeurs/9500234.md) tab, which allows you to customize the print preview and to choose the skin template theme and custom style sheet. You can also configure screen sizes.

- The "Group" tab, which is used to manage teamwork (SCM or GIT).

- The ["Options"](../Editeurs/9500227.md) tab, which allows you to configure the template update, backup and synchronization options. This tab is also used to enable the strict mode and to define the code style. The ["Options"](../Editeurs/9500227.md) tab, which allows you to configure the template update, backup and synchronization options. This tab is also used to enable the strict mode and to define the code style.

- The ["Advanced"](../Editeurs/9500236.md) tab, which allows you to configure how to use "Reports & Queries", AAFs and how to lock the application.

- The ["Compilation"](../Editeurs/9500218.md) tab, which allows you to configure the compilation options.

- The ["Telemetry"](../Editeurs/9500223.md) tab, which allows you to configure the telemetry options for the project. 
	




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Project tab
<a name="project_tab_ELTTEXTE000244"></a>


### Project details
<a name="project_details_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

The information about the project affects:

- **the name and directory of project**. This information cannot be modified. To change the project directory, we advise you to copy the project via the Windows explorer.

- **the project description**: This control allows you to specify the purpose of the project. This description will be used in the project documentation.

- **the directory of task list**. For more details, see [Task list](../Editeurs/2021004.md).



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>




<a name="NOTE2_5b"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### Configuration description
<a name="configuration_description_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

The "Description of current configuration" button is used to access the options of the current configuration. For more details, see [Project configuration](../Editeurs/9000030.md).


