


## Making a backup of a project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
It is possible to regularly make a backup of the different elements of a project.

During this backup, you can create:

- an archive file (ZIP extension). This file contains all the project elements that were saved.

- a simple copy of the project.




The saved project can be restored at any time.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000140"></a>


### To make a backup of the current project:
<a name="make_backup_the_current_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000025"></a>

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Backup/Restore" and select "Make a project backup". The archiving wizard starts.

2. Select the categories of the project files to save.

3. Select the type of backup to perform:

	- ***Compressed backup file (zip)***. In this case, specify the name of the backup directory and file. This name can be a custom name or it can contain the backup date. Caution: If the backup is performed in the directory of versions and if a version with the same name was already saved, the corresponding archive will be overwritten.

	- ***Backup copy***. In this case, specify the name of the backup directory. This name may be a custom name or it may contain the backup date.




4. Validate the wizard. The archive file (or the copy of the project) is created in the specified directory.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000164"></a>


### Restore
<a name="restore_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

To restore a backup or backup file, on the "Project" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Backup/Restore" and select "Restore a project". For more details, see [Restoring a project](../Editeurs/2030038.md).


