


## Importing elements into a project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000110"></a>
All the elements handled by a project (window, report, classes, set of procedures, queries, ...) can be transferred from a project to another one, for the same product. Importing elements is used to add elements coming from another project into the current project. 

For example, the WINDEV windows can be imported from a WINDEV project into the current WINDEV project. 

Remark: You also have the ability to perform imports between projects belonging to different products. For more details, see: 

- [Importing a WINDEV project](../Editeurs/2030002.md)

- [Importing WINDEV windows](../Editeurs/2030001.md)




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000134"></a>
To import elements from a project into the current project (both projects use the same product): 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Import" and select "XXX elements and their dependencies" (where XXX represents the name of the current product, WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile).

2. Select the directory containing the files to import. The list of elements is automatically displayed. This list includes:

	- the file name, 

	- the description of the file (if it exists).




3. Select the elements to import. A checkmark is displayed in front of the selected files.

4. Validate. The selected files are automatically imported into the current project directory and included in the list of project elements.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000158"></a>


### Dependency of the files
<a name="dependency_the_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

The elements are imported along with their dependencies: all the files linked to the imported element are also imported. For example, the window and its background image are automatically imported.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Estimating the size of imported files
<a name="estimating_the_size_imported_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

The "Calculate" button is used to estimate the size of the imported files. This size takes into account the size of the element to import and the size of the files that depend on this element.


