
## Creating the link menus in the windows of a WINDEV Mobile RAD pattern 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## The steps for creating a RAD pattern
<a name="the_steps_for_creating_rad_pattern_ELTTEXTE000135"></a>
The steps for creating a WINDEV Mobile RAD pattern are as follows:

1. [Creating the "RAD Pattern" project.](../Editeurs/2031021.md)

2. Creating the different pattern windows.

	- [Form window](../Editeurs/2031036.md) (with **link options** if necessary)

	- [Table window](../Editeurs/2031037.md) (with **link options** if necessary)

	- [Relation window](../Editeurs/2031038.md) (with **link options** if necessary)

	- [Vision Plus buttons and window](../Editeurs/2031040.md)

	- [Main menu](../Editeurs/2031041.md)




3. [Generating the RAD pattern.](../Editeurs/2031023.md)

4. [Using the RAD pattern.](../Editeurs/2031024.md)




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the different pattern windows
<a name="creating_the_different_pattern_windows_ELTTEXTE000159"></a>


### The files to create
<a name="the_files_create_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

Reminder: To build a RAD pattern used to create a full project, the following files are required:

- A form for RADFileA.

- A form for RADFileB. A combo box and a Vision Plus button (or a popup combo box) must allow you to select an element of RADFileA.

- A form for RADFileC. A combo box and a Vision Plus button (or a popup combo box) must allow you to select an element of RADFileB.

- A table for RADFileA.

- A table for RADFileB.

- A table for RADFileC.

- A relation window RADFileB/RADFileD.




These different elements must contain link buttons. You also have the ability to provide the main menu of the application.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Difference between Mobile and Smartphone
<a name="difference_between_mobile_and_smartphone_ELTPARAGRAPHE000057"></a>

Creating an application for Mobile and an application for Smartphone are two different things. On a Smartphone, the screen is smaller and a drop-down menu allows you to validate (or not) the screens.

This difference also applies to the RAD patterns. This help page explains how to create a form window for Mobile and for Smartphone.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Standard to follow
<a name="standard_follow_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

This help page presents the different rules that must be applied when creating the pages and windows of the RAD pattern. These rules have been used to create the different patterns supplied with WINDEV Mobile 16.

These rules are recommendations. You can implement and use your own standard.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## The link options in Mobile
<a name="the_link_options_mobile_ELTTEXTE000195"></a>
The Form or Table windows can include link menu options. These link menu options are used to display a table, a form or a table + form on the linked files.

A simple example: viewing the orders of a customer from the form of the customer.

**A link option must necessarily:**

- be named: MENULIA_RADFileX. Any caption can be used. However, we recommend that you use a simple caption ("RADFileB table" or "RADFileA form" for example).

- be an option of a main menu named "MAINMENU_OPTIONS", whose caption is "Options".




**Code**: Example of code that can be used in a menu option, used to open a table on the ***RADFileB*** file from the form on ***RADFileA***:


```wl
// Implement the filter on the link key 
HFilter(RADFileB,IDRADFileARel,RADFileA.IDRADFileA)
// Open the table window of RADFileB
Open(WIN_Table_RADFileB)
// Disable filter 
HDeactivateFilter(RADFileB)
```



