


## Opening, closing and saving a query
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Opening and closing a query
<a name="opening_and_closing_query_ELTTEXTE000156"></a>
The query editor allows you to easily handle the queries. 

**To open a query in the editor**: 

- double-click its name in the "Project explorer" pane. 

- on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Open" and select "Open". Select one or more ".WDR" files and validate.




The query is immediately displayed in the query editor.

**To close a query**: 

- click the cross found in the upper-right corner of the window for editing the query. 

- on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, click "Close". If the query contains unsaved modifications, you have the ability to save the query. To save the query, go to the "Home" tab, "General" group, click "Save" or expand "Save" and select "Save as" to save and rename the query.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Automatic recovery
<a name="automatic_recovery_ELTTEXTE000180"></a>
To avoid problems when a system lock occurs (power outage for example), the query editor proposes a system used to automatically retrieve the elements opened in the different editors: 

- on the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of XXX". 

- in the "General" tab, check "Backup for automatic recovery every" and specify the desired interval.




When this system is enabled:

- an automatic backup of opened elements is performed at specific time intervals (every 10 minutes by default).

- when re-opening a query after a system lock, a window for automatic restore is displayed. This window proposes to recover:

	- the query as it at was during the last backup performed from the query editor.

	- the query automatically saved by the query editor.




- the selected version is automatically opened in the query editor. The unselected version is available in the window for version management: on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Save" and select "Versions". The unselected version can be opened at any time. For more details, see [Managing the versions](../Editeurs/2021002.md).





