


## SQL : ORDER BY clause: Organizing the result of a query 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000124"></a>
The **ORDER BY** clause is used to sort the records selected by an SQL query. The selected records can be sorted in:

- **ascending order** (default order):

	- alphabetical order from A to Z for the text items.

	- from the lowest value to the greatest value for the numeric items.




- **descending order**:

	- alphabetical order from Z to A for the text items.

	- from the greatest value to the lowest value for the numeric items.







See a specific documentation about SQL for more details.

To discover all the SQL commands (functions, clauses, operators, etc.) that can be used in an SQL query managed by HFSQL, see [Commands that can be used in an SQL query managed by HFSQL](../Editeurs/2034006.md).

**Remarks**:

- This clause can only be used:

	- in the SQL code of queries created in the query editor. Then, these queries will be run by [HExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/3044080.md).

	- in the SQL code of queries run by [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md).




- This clause can be used with all the types of data sources (Oracle, Access, SQL Server, ...).

- The sort items specified in the ORDER BY clause may not be found in the SELECT clause (output items of query).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Use format
<a name="use_format_ELTTEXTE000148"></a>
The format for using the **ORDER BY** clause is as follows:


```txt
ORDER BY ItemToSort ASC/DESC
```


The &lt;ItemToSort&gt; parameter can correspond to:

- the name of the item to sort.

- a parameter name. 
	When the query is run, if the parameter contains the sort order (ASC/DESC), this one will have priority over the one specified in the query.




**Remark**: The **ORDER BY** clause must always be found after the GROUP BY clause.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Usage example
<a name="usage_example_ELTTEXTE000172"></a>


- The following SQL code is used to list the last and first names of customers. The result is sorted by customer names in ascending order:
	
	```sql
	SELECT CUSTOMER.CustomerLastName, CUSTOMER.CustomerFirstName
	FROM CUSTOMER
	ORDER BY CUSTOMER.CustomerName
	```

	**Remark**: By default, the sort is performed in ascending order. Therefore, there is no need to specify the **ASC** keyword.




- The following SQL code is used to list the products. The result is sorted by product prices in descending order:
	
	```sql
	SELECT PRODUCT.ProductName, PRODUCT.ProductPrice
	FROM PRODUCT
	ORDER BY PRODUCT.ProductPrice DESC
	```






