
## The UML model
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000097"></a>
The main objective of a development team is to create optimized applications, capable of satisfying the ever-changing needs of their users.

Modeling an application defines the structure and the expected behavior of a system. It helps understand its organization and detect simplification and reuse opportunities as well as manage potential risks.

A model is a simplification of reality. It allows you to better understand the system to develop.

A diagram is the graphical representation of a set of elements that build a system. To view the system from different perspectives, the Unified Modeling Language (UML) defines nine different diagrams. Each diagram represents a system state.

WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile allow you to create the following nine types of UML models:

- [Class diagram](../Editeurs/2035011.md): describes the overall structure of a system.

- [Use case diagram](../Editeurs/2035004.md): represents the system features from the user's point of view.

- [Object diagram](../Editeurs/2035012.md): represents a set of objects and their relationships at a given time.

- [Component diagram](../Editeurs/2035020.md): describes the physical and static architecture of a computer application.

- [Activity diagram](../Editeurs/2035005.md): represents the behavior of a method or the progress of a use case.

- [Sequence diagram](../Editeurs/2035017.md): represents the chronological order of messages sent and received by a set of objects.

- [Collaboration diagram](../Editeurs/2035002.md): represents the structural organization of objects that send and receive messages.

- [State-transition diagram](../Editeurs/2035023.md): represents a sequence of states.

- [Deployment diagram](../Editeurs/2035019.md): shows the redistribution of the devices (nodes) used in a system as well as the association between the executable programs and these devices.




This help page presents an overview of the UML modeling. For more information about UML, see the specific documentation.


