
## Configuring the server for the CGI/AWP protocol
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000112"></a>
**To use WEBDEV, a Web server must to be found on the computer where WEBDEV is installed.**

Different Web servers are available for Windows: IIS, Apache, etc, ... 

The configuration mode of these servers depends on:

- the editor

- the server version,

- the operating system,

- and other parameters.




Using a Web server to run the test of dynamic WEBDEV sites with WEBDEV Development Version requires a specific configuration for the CGI protocol.

This configuration is performed when installing WEBDEV. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing WEBDEV Development Version
<a name="installing_webdev_development_version_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>
When installing WEBDEV, the Web server for the CGI protocol is automatically configured for the following Web servers:

- Apache 2.4.x.

- IIS version 7.




If your server is found in this list and if a configuration problem occurs, then the Web server chosen when installing WEBDEV development version did not correspond to the Web server used. In this case, we recommend that you to re-install WEBDEV.

If your server is not displayed in this list, the Web server must be configured for the CGI protocol.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Manual configuration of Web servers for WEBDEV
<a name="manual_configuration_web_servers_for_webdev_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>
Let's see the procedure to follow:

1. Create an alias on the CGI protocol of WEBDEV.

2. This alias must have the following characteristics:




- Name : WD280AWP

- Associated directory: directory of the WEBDEV engine (Programs\\ENGINE\\WINDOWS\\AWP subdirectory of the setup directory of WEBDEV).

- Associated rights: Read, Execute



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>
For information, you will find the configuration procedures for using WEBDEV development version with the following servers: 

- [Apache 2.4](../Editeurs/3539086.md)

- [IIS version 7](../Editeurs/2037012.md)





