


## SCM: Management of rights
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000201"></a>
It is possible to manage and grant certain access rights to the developers for each element in the SCM.

The access to each element can be restricted according to the rights granted to the developer: these rights are associated with the connection account or with a group (only if the SCM repository is in Client/Server mode).

The rights are defined in the SCM administrator. To start the SCM administrator, go to the "SCM" tab, "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator". 

In most cases, the management of rights is used to:

- restrict the rights granted to everybody in order to grant specific rights to some users.

- restrict the rights granted to some users (trainees for example).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000225"></a>


### Defining the rights on a directory
<a name="defining_the_rights_directory_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

To define the rights on a directory:

1. The rights are defined in the SCM administrator. To start the SCM administrator, go to the "SCM" tab, "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator".

2. Select a directory.

3. Select "Properties" in the context menu of the directory. The directory properties window is displayed.

4. Select the "Rights" tab. By default, all users have all rights.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Defining the rights on a file
<a name="defining_the_rights_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

To define the rights on a file: 

1. The rights are defined in the SCM administrator. To start the SCM administrator, go to the "SCM" tab, "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator".

2. Select a file.

3. Select "Properties" in the context menu of the file. The file properties window is displayed.

4. Select the "Rights" tab. By default, all users have all rights.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Adding rights for a user or for a group
<a name="adding_rights_for_user_for_group_ELTPARAGRAPHE000087"></a>

To add rights for a user or for a group: 

1. Open the file or directory rights window.

2. Click "Add".

3. Specify whether the rights must be applied to:

	- a group. The groups are available only if the SCM repository is in Client/Server mode. In this case, the groups correspond to the groups defined in the HFSQL Control Center for the SCM repository.

	- a user. You have the ability to enter any user name.




4. Validate.

5. Select the user or the group whose rights must be modified.

6. Modify the rights of this user or group in the "Details of rights" section. The available rights are:

	- ***Full control***: The user can perform all the operations.

	- ***Read (L)***: The user can read the element. These rights allow you to retrieve a version of the element and to check it out for test. If a user has no read rights on a directory, the directory files are invisible. The write rights forces the read rights.

	- ***Write***:

		- ***Check out and check in***: These rights allow you to check out and check in an element.

		- ***Add (A)***: These rights allow adding files, directories, shares and labels, and creating branches.

		- ***Rename (R)***: These rights allow renaming a file or a directory.

		- ***Delete (S)***: These rights allow deleting files, directories or shares. They also allow you to replace a share by another share.

		- ***Delete permanently (X)***: These rights allow permanently deleting a file or a directory. These rights only apply to the last share of a file.




- ***Modify rights (M)***: The user can modify the rights granted to the other users.

7. Click "Apply" to apply the new rights or click "Cancel" to ignore them.




**Remark**: The full rights are always granted to the administrator (total control).
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Inheritance of rights
<a name="inheritance_rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000150"></a>

- When rights are applied to a directory, these rights are also applied to all the elements found in the directory.  

- When a new directory is created, this directory automatically inherits from the rights of the parent directory.

- By default, a repository is created with full control granted to everyone on the root.





