


## Search in SCM history
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>
The search in the history allows you to perform an advanced search in the history of operations performed in the SCM. The search result can be: 

- Displayed on the screen.

- Exported in different formats: HFSQL, XLSX document, DOCX document, to the clipboard, ...




This type of search can also be performed via a command line. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to perform a search via the SCM administrator?
<a name="how_perform_search_via_the_scm_administrator_ELTTEXTE000162"></a>
To perform a search in the history: 

1. Start the SCM administrator. 

2. On the "Tools" tab, in the "Find" group, click "In the history". 

3. The window used to perform a multi-criteria search in the history is displayed. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Performing a search via a command line
<a name="performing_search_via_command_line_ELTTEXTE000186"></a>
A search can be performed in the SCM history via a command line, by using the following syntax: 


```txt
WDGDSAdmin.exe /EXPORT 
		/BASE=<Address of the repository> 
		/LOGIN=<Login> 
		/PASS=<Password> 
		/DIR=<Name of remote directory> 
		/EXPORTFILE=<Full name of export file>
```
In this code, &lt;Address of the repository&gt; has the following format:

- For HFSQL Client/Server: 
	
	```txt
	"CS:\\<IP Address of server:<Server port>\<Name of SCM repository>"
	```


- For HFSQL Classic: the local path of the repository must be specified. For example: 
	
	```txt
	"D:\PC SOFT\Local SCM repository\"
	```





This command line accepts additional filtering options:

- /COMMENTONLY=1: Used to get comments only. 

- /SINCELASTINSTALL=1: Used to get the modifications performed since the last setup generation. 

- /MINDATE=YYYMMDDHHMMSS: Used to define the minimum search date (included in the search). For example: 2017010100000.

- /MAXDATE=YYYMMDDHHMMSS: Used to define the maximum search date (included in the search). For example: 2018010100000.

- /BUGID=999: Used to get the modifications linked to incident 999. 

- /TASKID=999	: Used to get the modifications linked to task 999. 

- /AUTHOR=Login: Used to get the modifications of &lt;Login&gt; developer. 

- /FILENAME=xxx: Used to perform a search on the &lt;xxx&gt; file only. This parameter depends on "/FILENAMEFILTER". 

- /FILENAMEFILTER=0/1/2/3: Used to filter the name of search file: 

	- 0 = Starts with xxx, 

	- 1 = Ends by xxx, 

	- 2 = Contains xxx, 

	- 3 = Is equal to xxx


 where xxx was specified in the /FILENAME parameter

- /LABEL=yyy: Used to perform a search on the elements with the &lt;yyy&gt; label only. This parameter depends on "/LABELFILTER". 

- /LABELFILTER=0/1/2/3: Used to filter the name of search label: 

	- 0 = Starts with yyy, 

	- 1 = Ends by yyy, 

	- 2 = Contains yyy, 

	- 3 = Is equal to yyy, 

	- 4 = all elements with a label,


 where yyy was specified in the "/LABEL" parameter.

- /COMMENT=zzz: Used to get the elements whose comment is &lt;zzz&gt;. This parameter depends on "/LABELFILTER".

- /COMMENTFILTER=0/1/2/3: Used to filter the comment content: 

	- 0 = Starts with zzz, 

	- 1 = Ends by zzz, 

	- 2 = Contains zzz, 

	- 3 = Is equal to zzz,


 where zzz was specified in the "/COMMENT" parameter.





