


## Configuring an existing project for the SCM
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000250"></a>
Some operations are required before an existing project can be used by the Source Code Manager. Then, you will be able to [work with SCM](../Editeurs/2038004.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000274"></a>


### Adding a local project into the Source Code Manager
<a name="adding_local_project_into_the_source_code_manager_ELTPARAGRAPHE000021"></a>

To add a local project into the Source Code Manager: 

1. Open your project in the relevant product (WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile).

2. On the "SCM" tab, in the "Add project" group, click "Add project to SCM".

3. In the wizard, select the repository to use and specify its characteristics if necessary. The available repositories are: 

	- a repository found on a network share (repository in HFSQL Classic format). Specify the directory of the repository (network computer or shared directory).

	- a repository located on an HFSQL Client/Server server. The repository will be in HFSQL Client/Server format. In this case, you must specify:

		- the server,

		- the database,

		- the port used,

		- the name and password of an HFSQL database administrator.




- an SCMDrive repository (paid turnkey solution, on a shared server). Specify your SCMDrive login credentials: email, password and team. For more details on GDSDrive, go to [SCMDrive](https://pcscloud-drive.net/UK/SCMDrive/index.awp).

- a PCSCloud repository (paid turnkey solution, on a dedicated server). Specify the name of cloud platform used and the project to open.  For more details, log in to [PCSCloud](https://pcscloud.net/UK/cloud_development.awp).

4. In the next step, specify the name of the directory where the project will be located in the repository. By default, the projects are organized according to the product used. Any directory can be specified (the "Remote directory" section can be modified). Go to the next step.

5. Select the elements that will be added to the repository. By default, all the project elements are added. Go to the next step.

	- **If the project is using a shared analysis** that is not found in the project directory, the wizard proposes to associate it with an existing SCM analysis, if this analysis has the same name. In this case, the analysis of SCM is automatically shared among the different projects: no additional operation is required.

	- **If the project is using elements shared between several projects**: if these elements are not found in the project directory, the wizard proposes:

		- to copy these elements into the project directory.

		- to share these elements with the corresponding element already found in the SCM. If several elements with the same name are found in the SCM, you have the ability to select the element that will be shared.




6. Select (if necessary) the dependencies that will be added to the repository. All the dependencies are added by default. By default, the files found in the "EXE" directory of project are not added. If these files are added, they are checked out for test by default. Go to the next step.

7. Validate the addition of the project to the repository.




The developer who added the project into the Source Code Manager becomes the master of the project.

<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Adding a network project managed by the developer groupware into the Source Code Manager
<a name="adding_network_project_managed_the_developer_groupware_into_the_source_code_manager_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

To add a network project managed by the developer groupware into the Source Code Manager:

1. All the developers must check all the objects into the project shared in developer groupware mode: on the "SCM" tab, in the "All elements" group, expand "Element status" and select "Status of elements (checked out, etc.)". In the window that appears, click "Check all in".

2. All the developers must exit from the project.

3. The project manager must:

	- load the project in the corresponding product (WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile)

	- make sure that all the elements have been checked in: on the "SCM" tab, in the "All elements" group, expand "Element status" and select "Status of elements (checked out, etc.)".

	- add the project into the Source Code Manager: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Add project" group, click "Add project to SCM". The project is automatically copied to the local computer. The steps to add the project to the SCM are the same used to add a local project.




4. We advise you to rename the network directory where the project was found. Therefore, the project will not be loaded when starting the product.

5. Each developer can restart the relevant product (WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile).

6. Each developer (except for the project manager) can load the project in a local directory: on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Open" and select "Open a project from the SCM".

7. The project manager can directly load the project that was copied locally onto his computer.




**Remarks**:

- If test files or specific files were found in the network directory, they still can be used via the network or they can be copied locally (each developer will have to perform this copy).

- If elements are shared among several projects, see "Sharing resources".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Sharing resources
<a name="sharing_resources_ELTTEXTE000310"></a>


### Sharing files
<a name="sharing_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000155"></a>

A first project was imported into the Source Code Manager. This project contains elements shared with other projects (classes, windows, procedures, style sheets, ...)

The wizard for project addition proposes to associate the elements already found in the SCM with your project.

The following operations explain how resources can be shared among the different projects found in the SCM.

**To share elements (resources) between different SCM projects**:

1. On the "SCM" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Import from the SCM".

2. In the window that appears:

	- The "Search" tab is used to search for an element located in the repository by its name.

	- The "Browse" tab is used to browse through all the elements located in the repository.




3. Select the requested element, then:

	- Click the "Share" button to share the selected element.

	- Click "Import a copy" to import the element into the project without sharing it.







**Important**: The dependencies of the element are automatically shared (the internal components of a window for example).

**Remark**: To get the later versions of the common resources, don't forget to regularly retrieve the version found in the SCM.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Sharing an analysis
<a name="sharing_analysis_ELTPARAGRAPHE000190"></a>

A first project was imported into the SCM. This project contains an analysis shared with other projects. 

The wizard  for project addition proposes to associate an analysis already found in the SCM with your project. No specific operation is required.

To share an analysis between existing projects: 

1. Import your project A into the SCM (Source Code Manager) as well as its analysis. 

2. The project B, with which the analysis must be shared, must have no analysis. 

3. Import this project into the SCM

4. Once the project B is imported, display the project description. 

5. In the "Advanced" tab, click the "Import an analysis from SCM" button. 

6. Then, you have the ability to copy the analysis or to share it. Click the "Share" button. 





