


## Creating an SCM repository
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000194"></a>
To share a project via the Source Code Manager, a repository must be created. This repository must be created once only on the server.

The operating system and the file system on which the SCM repository is installed must support files exceeding 4 GB.

The SCM repository can be created: 

- on **SCMDrive** (paid turnkey solution). For more details, see [SCMDrive](https://pcscloud-drive.net/UK/SCMDrive/index.awp). 
	In this case, you must specify: 

	- Your username (email) and password,

	- Your team. 




- on a **PCSCLOUD** development platform (paid turnkey solution). For more details, see [PCSCloud](https://pcscloud.net/UK/cloud_development.awp). 
	In this case, you must specify: 

	- The name of your platform,

	- The username and password.




- **on a previously installed HFSQL Client/Server server**: the repository will be in [HFSQL Client/Server](../WDLang4/3044306.md) format. In this case, you must specify:

	- the server,

	- the HFSQL database,

	- the port used,

	- the name and password of an HFSQL database administrator. 




- **in a shared directory on the network**: all the SCM users must have full rights on this directory. The repository will be in [HFSQL Classic](../CCHF/35400010.md) format.
	Simply specify the network directory where the repository will be created.




If you use your own solution (HFSQL Client/Server server previously installed, or SCM repository in HFSQL Classic format), the machine must be reliable and secure. For more details, see [HFSQL Client/Server database: Recommendations about security](../WDLang4/1000017310.md)

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## When should an SCM repository be created?
<a name="when_should_scm_repository_created_ELTTEXTE000224"></a>
**The SCM repository must be created once only.**

WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile allow you to create this SCM repository:

- when installing WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile.

- when creating a project that uses the SCM.

- [when importing a project into the Source Code Manager.](../Editeurs/2038002.md)

- [in the SCM administrator directly](../Editeurs/2038008.md).




Once the SCM repository is created, all shared WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile projects can be imported into this SCM repository. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Converting an existing SCM repository from HFSQL Classic to HFSQL Client/Server
<a name="converting_existing_scm_repository_from_hfsql_classic_hfsql_clientserver_ELTTEXTE000248"></a>
The following operations allow you to convert an existing SCM repository from HFSQL Classic to HFSQL Client/Server:

1. Optimize the format of the HFSQL Classic SCM repository. To do so: 

	- open the SCM administrator: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator". 

	- in the administrator, on the "Tools" tab, in the "Maintenance" group, select "Migrate to most recent format ".




2. Install (if necessary) an HFSQL server on the computer where the SCM HFSQL Client/Server repository must be installed.

3. In the SCM administrator, on the "Tools" tab, in the "Maintenance" group, select "Switch to Client/Server".

4. All users can connect to the HFSQL Client/Server SCM repository by passing the necessary parameters (server, database, port used, name and password of an HFSQL database administrator).




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Backups
<a name="backups_ELTTEXTE000272"></a>
We advise you to make backup copies of the repository on a regular basis. To do so, all you have to do is copy and archive the data files corresponding to the SCM.

This operation will be automatically performed in a forthcoming version. 

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Changing the administrator password (SCM repository in Client/Server mode)
<a name="changing_the_administrator_password_scm_repository_clientserver_mode_ELTTEXTE000296"></a>
The password of the SCM administrator, in a Client/Server database, must be changed in the HFSQL Control Center of the SCM repository.

To do so:

1. Select the server that corresponds to the SCM repository.

2. Select the "Users" tab.

3. Select the administrator in the list of users and click "Edit".

4. Modify the password and validate.





