


## Spelling checker in the interface
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000127"></a>
WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile allow you to use a spelling checker in your interfaces. The spelling checker is available in the window, page and report editors.

Until version 23, the spelling checker used is the one from OpenOffice. 

From version 24, the spelling checker is integrated with WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>


### Principle
<a name="principle_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

The spelling checker detects the typos in the text entered in the different editors:

- Text directly displayed in the editor (caption of a control for example).

- Text entered in the description windows of the editor.




The spelling checker is integrated in WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. The spelling checker is proposed by default in English and French. To use additional languages, just add the files corresponding to the desired Hunspell dictionaries in the "\\Programs\\Data\\Dic" directory. 

These dictionaries can be easily found on Internet. These dictionaries include a ".dic" file and a ".aff" file with the same name that must be found at the same location. For more details, see [Check spelling based on Hunspell dictionaries](../WDChamp/1410087030.md). 
Remark: ".dic" and ".aff" files must be named &lt;Language abbreviation&gt;-&lt;Sub-language abbreviation&lt;. For example: 

- fr-FR.dic / fr-FR.aff

- de_DE.fic / de_DE.aff

- nl_NL.dic / nl_NL.aff


You can check if the dictionary has been loaded using [DictionaryLoad](../WDLang1/1000022958.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Enabling/Disabling the spelling checker
<a name="enablingdisabling_the_spelling_checker_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

To enable/disable the spelling checker:

1. Open the general options of the environment: on the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WINDEV/WEBDEV/WINDEV Mobile".

2. In the "General" tab, check or uncheck "Disable spelling checker".




**Remarks**: 

- The spelling checker can also be used in the code editor. For more details, see [Checkers in the code editor](../Editeurs/9000073.md).

- The spelling checker automatically stops if more than 50% of words are wrong. In this case, the checker considers that the language is not known or that it is a text containing references, proper names, and therefore that this text is not to be corrected. 

- The words that are added to the dictionary can be found in: "C:\\Users\\&lt;User&gt;\\AppData\\Roaming\\PC SOFT\\perso.dic".





