
## WX file
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000380"></a>
The &lt;Executable Name&gt;.WX file is used to manage some features directly, even if these features have not been included in the application. This file is found beside the executable. 

This file is a text file containing different sections that correspond to the requested features. 

You have the ability to manage: 

- [the deactivation of JIT](#NOTE2).

- [the management of automatic user tests](#NOTE3).

- [the dynamic audit](#NOTE4).

- [the runtime log](#NOTE5).

- [the connections used by the application](#NOTE6).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Disabling JITc
<a name="disabling_jitc_ELTTEXTE000404"></a>
The principle of JITc technology (Just In Time Compilation) is straightforward: the 5GL code of WINDEV is changed on the runtime computer into "native assembler code" when it is run. For more details, see [JITc](../Editeurs/2020009.md). 

If you have suspicions about problems that may be caused by the JIT technology, this technology can be disabled for a specific application, by modifying (or by adding) the &lt;Executable Name&gt;.WX file. This file is found beside the executable. To disable the JITc technology, add the following lines: 


```txt
[WD_EXECUTION]
OPTIM_EXECUTION=0
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Managing the automatic user tests
<a name="managing_the_automatic_user_tests_ELTTEXTE000428"></a>
WINDEV allows the user to record a test scenario in order to send it to the quality service or to the developer. Therefore, the user can easily transmit a reproduction protocol that is difficult to explain.

The developer will be able to import the tests directly into his project. These tests can be run to reproduce the problem encountered by the user and they can be added to the automatic tests of the application.

For more details, see [Automated test created by the user](../Editeurs/2019031.md). 

The creation of a test scenario can be done without modifying the application, via the &lt;Executable Name&gt;.WX file. This file must contain the following lines: 


```txt
[Scenario]
Enabled = <0/1>
File = <Name of WSCT file>
DLLPath = <DLL path for test>
```


**Let's take a look at these lines:**

- Enabled: This parameter must correspond to 0 to avoid recording the scenario and to 1 to record the scenario

- File: Name of the scenario file ("wsct" extension). This name can be built from the following elements:
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [%ExeDir%] | Directory of the executable, always filled with the "\\" character. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fExeDir](../WDLang1/3036049.md). |
| [%ExeName%] | Executable name. |
| [%Date%] | Start date of scenario file. |
| [%Time%] | Start time of scenario file. |
| [%UserName%] | Name of the current user. |
| [%ComputerName%] | Computer name. |
| [%DataDir%] | Directory of the HFSQL data files specified by the user when installing the application. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDir](../WDLang1/3036001.md). |
| [%DirUserData%] | Directory for the data of the current user of the current application.  This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDirUser](../WDLang1/3036071.md). |



- DLLPath: path used to access wd280test.dll. This DLL is required to create the scenario. 




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Enabling the dynamic audit
<a name="enabling_the_dynamic_audit_ELTTEXTE000452"></a>
The dynamic audit of an application analyzes its runtime performance. A dynamic audit can be performed in a test environment or on a live application. The audit detects problems such as:

- Excessive memory consumption

- Slowness of algorithms used

- Errors "hidden" at runtime




For more details, see [Dynamic audit](../Editeurs/1014502.md). 

You have the ability to audit an application in its production environment without modifying the executable: simply create a file in the same directory and with the same name as the executable, but with a ".WX" extension.

This file will have the following format:


```txt
[AUDIT]
ENABLED = 1 (or 0 to disable the audit)
FILE = <path of the .waudit file to be generated>
OPTION = <combination of the options of dbgEnableAudit>
```


<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Enable runtime log
<a name="enable_runtime_log_ELTTEXTE000476"></a>
The runtime log is a runtime trace. This log is a simple file (wlog extension) that contains the details of all the operations performed by a user in a WINDEV application:

- details about the processes called, 

- WLanguage functions with their parameters, 

- user procedures with their parameters, 

- threads, 

- components.




This file is used to:

- find out which operations are the most frequently used in the application.

- find out which processes take the most time.

- follow the code run during a process that triggers problems (hard to isolate in test mode).




For more details, see [Runtime log](../Editeurs/2019030.md). 

The activation of runtime log can be done without modifying the application via a specific file. To do so, create a file named &lt;Executable Name&gt;.WX beside the executable of the application. This file must contain the following lines:


```txt
[LOG]
Enabled=<0/1>
File=<Name of WXLOG file>
Option=<Value of options>
```


Let's study these lines:

- **Enabled**: This parameter must correspond to 0 to disable the log and to 1 to enable it.

- **File**: Name of the log file ("wlog" extension). This name can be built from the following elements:
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [%ExeDir%] | Directory of the executable, always filled with the "\\" character. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fExeDir](../WDLang1/3036049.md). |
| [%ExeName%] | Executable name. |
| [%Date%] | Start date of Log file. |
| [%Time%] | Start time of Log file. |
| [%UserName%] | Name of the current user. |
| [%ComputerName%] | Computer name. |
| [%DataDir%] | Directory of the HFSQL data files specified by the user when installing the application. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDir](../WDLang1/3036001.md). |
| [%DirUserData%] | Directory for the data of the current user of the current application.  This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDirUser](../WDLang1/3036071.md). |



- **Option**: Options of the log file.

	- If the options are not specified in the WX file (the OPTION line is missing), the log file is created with the default options: only the WLanguage functions are found in the log file.

	- "" (empty string): Only the processes are stored in the log.

	- "\*": the log contains the full information.

	- a combination of values:
			- "+F" to enable the trace for the functions,
			- "+P" to enable the trace for the parameters.







<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## Connections used by the application
<a name="connections_used_the_application_ELTTEXTE000500"></a>
When the application is installed on the end-user computer, depending on the selected options, the wizard allows the user to install an HFSQL Client/Server server on a Windows or Linux computer and to configure the connection used.

At the end of setup, a ".wx" file is created beside the executable.

The structure of this file is given for information. This structure can be modified in a forthcoming version. This file should not be modified manually.

This file contains the following information:


```txt
[CONNECT]
NBCX = Number of defined connections
NOM_x = Name of the connection number x
BASE_x = Type of database used (always corresponds to hAccessHFClientServer)
ADRESSE_x = Address of server used (name or IP address of the server)
PORT_x = Connection port
DATABASE_x = Name of the database used
LOGIN_x = Connection login
PWD_x = Encrypted password
ACCESS_x = Type of access (hOReadWrite or hORead)
EXTINFO_x = Extended information
```




<a name="NOTE7"></a>
<a name="NOTE7_1"></a>


## Disabling the telemetry on an application
<a name="disabling_the_telemetry_application_ELTTEXTE000530"></a>
The telemetry allows you to collect information about the use of an application by the end users. For more details, see [Telemetry: Overview](../WDLang1/1410086580.md). 

You have the ability to disable the telemetry in an application: 

- by calling the [TelemetryDisable](../WDLang1/1000021912.md) function. 

- by re-installing the application and by unchecking "Participate to the improvement...". 

- via the &lt;Executable Name&gt;.WX file. This file must contain the following lines: 
	
	```txt
	[WDANALYTICS]
	COLLECTE=0
	```

	Remark: This entry is not found in the &lt;Executable name&gt;.WX file if telemetry is enabled. 





