


## The Control Centers
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000106"></a>
A Control Center gives you a global view of the corresponding area, during the development phase, on a deployed site or for the maintenance and the evolution of the applications.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## The Control Centers dedicated to project management
<a name="the_control_centers_dedicated_project_management_ELTTEXTE000130"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

You can follow projects in WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile via the [Project Monitoring Center](../CCSuivi/3540701.md). 

The Project Monitoring Center allows you to manage the different events during the lifetime of a project: Requirements, Tasks, Personal schedule, Incidents, ... From this center, the contributors can indicate the completed tasks or the tasks to perform, the corrected incidents, ... This center is also used to retrieve the user feedback regarding the deployed applications.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Using the Control Centers for development
<a name="using_the_control_centers_for_development_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

Several cases may occur when using the Control Centers for development:

- [I work as a developer: How to retrieve the bugs and/or the suggestions of my users?](../CCSuivi/3540719.md)

- [I work as a developer: How to manage my tasks and my schedule?](../CCSuivi/3540721.md)

- [I work as a project manager: How to manage a development project?](../CCSuivi/3540722.md)




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## The redistributable Control Centers
<a name="the_redistributable_control_centers_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>


### Several redistributable Control Centers are provided with WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile:
<a name="several_redistributable_control_centers_are_provided_with_windev_webdev_and_windev_mobile_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

- **[Control Center of engines and HFSQL databases (network and Client/Server)](../CCHF/3540001.md)**
	This Control Center (also named HFSQL Control Center) is used to manage the different HFSQL databases (Network, Mobile and mainly Client/Server) found in the company. This Control Center can be used when developing an application. It can be redistributed along with the HFSQL Client/Server applications.

- **[User Control Center](../CCUser/3540201.md)**
	This Control Center is used to manage the applications deployed on a company network. From this Control Center, the users will be able to install their dedicated applications. The User Control Center can be redistributed.





