


## Analyzing dependencies and orphan images
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000103"></a>
To help you manage the navigation of the Web users in your sites, an advanced feature for analyzing the dependencies and the orphan images is available in WEBDEV. This feature completes [the analysis of the dead code and orphan elements](../Editeurs/9000075.md).

You will be immediately notified of real or potential broken links. Indeed, the browses are not fixed in dynamic mode.

The unused images and the orphan pages are also notified.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000127"></a>


### Analyzing dependencies and orphan images
<a name="analyzing_dependencies_and_orphan_images_ELTPARAGRAPHE000025"></a>

To analyze the dependencies and orphan images, on the "Project" tab, in the "Audit and performance" group, expand "Static audit" and select "Analyze dependencies".

The result window of this analysis lists:

- **the orphan images** (that are not used by any page). You can:

	- Delete selected images from the disk.

	- Archive the selected images in a .ZIP file and delete them.

	- Ignore the selected images. In this case, the ignored images can be displayed by clicking "Ignored orphan images".




- **the dependencies**, i.e., files related to other files. For each element of the WEBDEV project ("Element" column), all the dependencies are listed ("File" column). You have the ability to see:

	- all the dependencies, 

	- only the dependencies regarding HTML pages,

	- only the dependencies regarding images,

	- only the dependencies regarding JavaScript files,

	- other dependencies.







These dependencies can be displayed for the project, the project pages, the styles or the reports.


