


## Browser code (WLanguage): Framework 2
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000107"></a>
From version 22, WEBDEV proposes a new WLanguage framework for the browser code. This new version proposes a behavior close to server code and it completes the features of browser code.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Enabling the framework V2
<a name="enabling_the_framework_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>


### How to?
<a name="how_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

The new WLanguage framework is enabled globally for a project: 

1. Open the project description window: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description". 

2. In the "Advanced" tab, for the "WLanguage browser" option, select "Version 2". 

3. Validate. 




Important: To use the WLanguage framework version 2, the generation standard of pages must be "HTML 5". To define the generation standard: 

1. Open the project description window. 

2. In the "Advanced" tab: 

	- Select the "HTML 5" standard. 

	- In the generation options ("..." button), check "Force Internet Explorer in HTML5 mode in intranet (X-UA-compatible)". 


If one of these conditions is not fulfilled, the "WLanguage browser" option will be grayed and forced on "Version 1".





### When should I use (or not) the new framework?
<a name="when_should_use_not_the_new_framework_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

The new browser framework proposes a behavior close to WLanguage server. Therefore, some behaviors of browser code are modified, especially the method for passing parameters to the procedures.

**It is not recommended to modify the generation mode of a project in production** to avoid modifying the code behavior and to avoid regressions.
To use the new framework version in an existing  project (to benefit from the new features), we advise you to run full tests of different project codes to make sure that the change of framework does not trigger any regression.

When creating a new project, it may be interesting to use the framework in version 2 in order to benefit from the programming comfort of new features.


