
## Transforming a WINDEV project into Mobile: a detailed audit
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>
Transforming WINDEV applications into Mobile is very easy.

WINDEV Mobile includes all the elements of WINDEV projects: windows, queries, code, ... all of it without ever leaving the WINDEV editor (of course, it is necessary to have a WINDEV Mobile license).

Sure, the windows must be resized so that they fit phone and tablet screens.

And there are also code adaptations to be made for features not supported on mobile phones, such as the absence of a mouse on a tablet!

To help you, a wizard analyzes the code of your project and indicates precisely the lines of code to modify.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to transform a WINDEV project into Mobile?
<a name="how_transform_windev_project_into_mobile_ELTTEXTE000198"></a>


### How to?
<a name="how_ELTPARAGRAPHE000025"></a>

To transform a WINDEV project into mobile, simply: 

- Open the WINDEV project in WINDEV Mobile. WINDEV Mobile will then propose to create a mobile project configuration. 

- If you use WINDEV and a built-in version of WINDEV Mobile, simply create a specific configuration for the desired platform. 




The mobile transformation audit gives you all necessary tips to seamlessly transform a WINDEV application into Mobile for iOS and Android. 


### Transform a WINDEV project into mobile (WINDEV with WINDEV Mobile included)
<a name="transform_windev_project_into_mobile_windev_with_windev_mobile_included_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

To start transforming a WINDEV project into mobile: 

1. Open the project in WINDEV. 

2. On the "Project" tab, in the "Audit and performance" group, expand "Static audit" and select "Mobile audit".. 

3. The wizard for transformation into mobile opens up. 

4. This wizard proposes to create a specific project configuration for mobile (Android or iOS). Go to the next step. 

5. Select the type of device. Go to the next step.

6. The wizard lists the WINDEV windows of your project. 

7. Select the windows to duplicate in the new mobile configuration. Any necessary UI modifications will be made in the mobile configuration (as well as the necessary code modification). 

8. Go to the next step. 

9. Select the elements (other than windows) to include in the mobile configuration. These elements will be shared. 

10. Go to the next step. 

11. Specify the style book used for the project configuration. 

12. Go to the next step.

13. Validate the wizard. 

14. The mobile audit starts automatically. 




Remarks: 

- The name of the duplicated windows is followed by "_MOBILE". 

- You can copy/paste code or elements between WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile windows at any time.

- Windows can be duplicated only when creating the mobile project configuration for the first time.  





### Loading a WINDEV project into WINDEV Mobile
<a name="loading_windev_project_into_windev_mobile_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

To start transforming a WINDEV project into mobile: 

1. Open the WINDEV project in WINDEV Mobile. 

2. The project configuration creation wizard starts. 

3. Select the platform of the new project configuration (iOS or Android for example). Go to the next step. 

4. Select the type of device. Go to the next screen. 

5. The wizard lists the WINDEV windows of your project. 

6. Select the windows to duplicate in the new mobile configuration. Any necessary UI modifications will be made in the mobile configuration (as well as the necessary code modification). 

7. Go to the next step.

8. Select the elements (other than windows) to include in the mobile configuration. These elements will be shared. 

9. Go to the next step. 

10. Specify the style book used for the project configuration.

11. Go to the next step.  

12. Validate the wizard. 

13. The mobile audit starts automatically. 




Remarks: 

- The name of the duplicated windows is followed by "_MOBILE". 

- You can copy/paste code or elements between WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile windows at any time.

- Windows can be duplicated only when creating the mobile project configuration for the first time. 







### Follow the tips of the mobile audit
<a name="follow_the_tips_the_mobile_audit_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

The mobile audit starts automatically at the end of the creation of a mobile configuration, and can be started at any moment via the WINDEV or WINDEV Mobile menu : on the "Project" tab, in the "Audit and performance"group, expand "Static audit" and select "Mobile audit".

This audit makes it possible to deal with certain compilation errors by proposing solutions. 

All compilation errors encountered are also displayed in the error pane. 

It is necessary to correct all these errors for the application to be fully transformed into mobile. Some errors may be related to processes or features not available on mobile phones, unavailable WLanguage functions, etc.

Caution: In some cases, new developments may be necessary to adapt the application's behavior to mobile. 




### Finish the transformation into mobile
<a name="finish_the_transformation_into_mobile_ELTPARAGRAPHE000125"></a>

When all compilation and mobile audit errors are corrected, and the management adaptations are made, the mobile transformation is completed. 


