


## WDOptimizer: Overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000245"></a>


### WDOptimizer
<a name="wdoptimizer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

The different operations that can be performed with WDOptimizer are as follows:

- **Optimizing the indexes**
	This option allows you to perform several types of operations:

	1. **Check the indexes**: Checks the consistency between the index and the data files.

	2. **Optimize speed of indexes (Re-calculate statistics)**: Optimizes the indexes by calculating statistics on the indexes. These statistics are used to optimize the filters, the queries and the HFSQL views. 
			Remark: The more the data file is modified, the less the statistics reflect the content of HFSQL data file. The more records the data file contains, the less the modification of a single record impacts the overall statistics.

	3. **Rebuild the indexes**: Optimizes the access to the records of the data file and re-calculates the statistics. All the crossed records are automatically deleted. 

	4. **Rebuild the indexes and the memos**: Optimizes the entire data file, its index and its memos.

	5. ** Check and compress the indexes and the memos**: Optimizes the entire data file, its index and its memos. The memos will be compressed. Advanced options are available ("Options for compressing the memos").




- **View the properties of a file**
	Displays the characteristics of a data file (name, extension, format, encryption, ...).

- **Edit and modify a ".REP" file**
	Optimizes the access to the data files.

- **Roll back a transaction or remove records from a transaction**
	Cancels a transaction without interrupting the execution of the program.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000275"></a>


### Starting WDOptimizer
<a name="starting_wdoptimizer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

WDOptimizer can be started in interactive mode via one of the following methods:

- From WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile, on the "Tools" tab, in the "Database" group, click "WDOptimizer".

- Run "WDOptimizer.EXE" directly.




The different operations that can be performed with WDOptimizer are as follows:

1. Optimizing indexes. For more details, see [Optimizing indices](../WDOptimiseur/3519004.md).

2. Viewing the properties of a file. This data file can be selected in the list displayed on the screen or it can selected via the file picker.

3. Editing a .REP file: Select the desired .REP file. For more details, see [Editing and modifying a ".REP" file](../WDOptimiseur/3519001.md)

4. Handling transactions. For more details, see [Rolling back a transaction or removing records from a transaction](../WDOptimiseur/3519006.md)




**Remark**: On the development computer, WDOptimizer can be started from WDTool directly.

WDOptimizer can also be run in command line. For more details, see [Starting WDOptimizer in a command line](../WDOptimiseur/3519005.md).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000086"></a>

WDOptimizer can be freely distributed. WDOptimizer can be installed with the applications developed with WINDEV or WEBDEV. The license agreement of WINDEV or WEBDEV is fully enforced.

When creating the setup procedure, WDOptimizer is automatically supplied with your applications.

**Reminder**: The setup procedure can be created: 

- via the wizard: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, click "Setup procedure". 

- from the setup editor: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDInst".



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Required files
<a name="required_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000124"></a>

The following files are required to install WDOptimizer:


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| <br><br>- WDOptimizer.exe<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280etat.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280hf.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280html.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280mat.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280obj.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280pnt.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280prn.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280sql.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280std.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280vm.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280xml.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- wd280com.dll<br><br><br> | <br><br>- wd280xtrs.dll<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- WDOutil.WDK<br><br><br> | <br><br>- WDOptimiseur.PDF<br><br><br> |
| <br><br>- WDOptimiseurUS.PDF<br><br><br> |   |

To uninstall WDOptimizer from a computer, simply delete its directory.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Reminder: File index
<a name="reminder_file_index_ELTTEXTE000311"></a>
The index of a data file is a specific file (.NDX). This file is created according to the browse keys defined on the data file. It allows you to quickly find data in a data file.

For a better performance of the searches performed in your data files, the index should be optimized on a regular basis.


