
## Table,Display (External language)

***In french: Table,Affiche***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Refreshes the Table control. The calculated controls are recalculated. The position in the Table control is set according to the current position in the data file.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```txt
// In C
CALLWD("Table,Display,ProductTab,10");
```


<a name="Example2"></a>





```txt
// In Pascal
CALLWD('Table,Display,ProductTab,10');
```


<a name="Example3"></a>





```txt
// In VB
call CALLWD("Table,Display,ProductTab,10")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`Table,Display(<Table control> , <Index>)`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table control to be used.

**`<Index>: (Character string)`**

Index of the element to redisplay or character indicating the action to perform.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Displaying a Table control populated programmatically
<a name="displaying_table_control_populated_programmatically_ELTPARAGRAPHE000044"></a>

- If &lt;Index&gt; is specified, **Table, Display** redisplays the row whose index is specified.

- If &lt;Index&gt;=P, &lt;Index&gt;=T or &lt;Index&gt;=\*, **Table, Display** redisplays the elements currently displayed.

- **Table, Display** is used to recalculate the calculated controls.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Displaying a Table control based on a data file
<a name="displaying_table_control_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

- If &lt;Index&gt; is specified, **Table, Display** redisplays the row whose index is specified.

- If &lt;Index&gt;=P, **Table,Display** redisplays the elements currently displayed in the Table control. This is used to refresh the display (after a write operation performed in the file by Table,Save for instance)

- If &lt;Index&gt;=T, **Table,Display** redisplays the Table control from the current element in the file. It is thus possible to display the Table control from a given position.




For example, to display the records corresponding to a search.

1. The search is performed (HReadSeek).

2. The result is displayed by Table,Display.





