


## WEBDEV administrator: Overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>


### The WEBDEV administrator
<a name="the_webdev_administrator_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

The WEBDEV administrator is a module used to manage dynamic WEBDEV sites (in Session or AWP mode).

When developing a dynamic WEBDEV site, the administrator is mainly used to:

- run the test of the site via the test page ("Advanced" tab, "Test page" option).

- define the parameters for connecting to the site for tests: disconnection time, ... ("Configuration" tab).

- delete the current test connections ("Connections" tab).

- change the Web server used for tests ("Advanced" tab, "Server" option).

- perform a diagnostic if a problem occurs when starting a WEBDEV site ("Configuration" tab, "Diagnostic" option).

- ...




In deployment, two types of WEBDEV administrators are available:

- **the WEBDEV Deployment administrator**, supplied with the WEBDEV Application Server, that allows the hosting company to manage the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on a Web server.

- **the remote WEBDEV administrator** that allows the site manager to manage their dynamic WEBDEV sites remotely from any computer.




This help page presents only the administrator for WEBDEV Development version.

For more details, see the help about the other types of WEBDEV administrator.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Starting the administrator of WEBDEV Development version
<a name="starting_the_administrator_webdev_development_version_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>
To start the administrator of WEBDEV Development version, use one of the following methods:

- On the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDAdmin" in WEBDEV Development version.

- Select "Programs .. WEBDEV 28 .. WEBDEV administrator" from the "Start" menu.




The WEBDEV administrator is automatically started during the first site test. The administrator can then be left running in the background.

By default, the WEBDEV administrator allows ten simultaneous connections to the same dynamic WEBDEV site (GO icon).

**Remark**: When the WEBDEV administrator is launched, the icon appears in the Windows taskbar. The context menu of the systray icon allows you to: 

- open the administrator. 

- exit the administrator. 

- disconnect all users. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Interface of the administrator of WEBDEV Development version
<a name="interface_the_administrator_webdev_development_version_ELTTEXTE000203"></a>
The administrator of WEBDEV Development version includes a window with several tabs:

- ["Connections"](../WDAdmin/3539041.md) tab to configure the characteristics of current connections.

- ["Sites"](../WDAdmin/3539008.md) tab, which lists the WEBDEV sites installed on the current computer.

- ["Web services"](../WDAdmin/3539075.md) tab, which lists the WEBDEV webservices installed on the current computer. This tab is identical to ["Sites"](../WDAdmin/3539008.md) but for webservices. 

- ["WebSockets"](../WDAdmin/3539082.md) tab, which lists the WebSocket servers installed on the current computer. 

- ["Configuration"](../WDAdmin/3539046.md) tab to configure the general configuration of WEBDEV sites installed on the current computer.

- ["Setups/Accounts"](../WDAdmin/3539065.md) tab to manage the WEBDEV server on the current computer.

- ["Advanced"](../WDAdmin/3539066.md) tab to configure specific features.

- ["Logs"](../WDAdmin/3539073.md) tab to analyze the log status reports. 





