
## WDMap: Reindexing an HFSQL data file
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000122"></a>
WDMap is used to find out whether an HFSQL data file must be reindexed and reindex an HFSQL data file.

Two types of reindex operations are available:

- ***Standard reindexing***: Standard reindexing (with statistics and without compression).

- ***Reindexing with compression***: Reindexing with compression (keeps the active records only. All the crossed or deleted records are permanently deleted).




**Reminder**:

- The indexes are re-organized by the reindex operation. After the indexing operation, the access to indexes is optimized. The indexing operation may be required if the index file is lost or damaged.

- WDMap allows you to easily reindex a data file. However, to reindex a file more completely, use [WDOptimizer](../WDOptimiseur/3519002.md).

- You can also reindex a file from the Windows explorer. To do so, select "Optimize" in the context menu of the file to reindex. Then, the reindexing is performed by [WDOptimizer](../WDOptimiseur/3519002.md).






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000152"></a>


### WDMap started from the editor
<a name="wdmap_started_from_the_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

To reindex a data file:

1. Display the data file to reindex (for more details, see [Viewing the records found in a data file](../WDMap/3517012.md)).

2. To perform:

	- a ***standard reindexing***: Select "Tools .. Reindexing .. Standard".

	- a ***reindexing with compression***: select "Tools .. Reindexing .. With compression".






<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### WDMap started by the "WDMAP.EXE" program
<a name="wdmap_started_the_wdmapexe_program_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

To reindex a data file:

1. In the wizard, select "Reindex a file" and go to the next plane.

2. Select the file to reindex and validate.




Remarks:

- If the file is password-protected (password defined by [HPass](../WDLang4/3044108.md), [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) or [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md), or during the [automatic data modification](../WDLang4/3044195.md)), specify this password.

- If the file comes from an analysis in 5.5 format, specify the full path of the source analysis and its password.





