
## Native MySQL Connector: Specific features
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>
The Native MySQL Connector (also called "Native MySQL Access") creates "InnoDB" tables to support locks and transactions on a MySQL database. 

See the documentation about MySQL for more details.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000171"></a>


### Use case
<a name="use_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

If your server is not configured to support "InnoDB" tables, MySQL automatically creates an ISAM table (default type in MySQL). Refer to the MySQL documentation to learn more more about the server configuration required to support "InnoDB" tables.

**Native MySQL Connector**: [SQLLock](../WDLang4/3072003.md) and [SQLTransaction](../WDLang4/3072029.md) can be used to manage locks and transactions only on MySQL tables of type "InnoDB".

If you want to specify another type of table (other than "InnoDB"):

- run the CREATE TABLE SQL command

- use the MySQL management tool. In this case, do not use [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) in your program. [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) deletes the table ("DROP TABLE" command) if it already exists in order to recreate it.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Browsing files
<a name="browsing_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

When looping through on a MySQL table, the records are not retrieved all at once but by blocks of 100 records. This value corresponds to a read "cache". This feature is used to optimize the browse operations with [HReadFirst](../WDLang4/3044051.md)/[HReadNext](../WDLang4/3044037.md) as well as HReadSeekXXX functions.

**Remark**:  The items identical to the last record read (which means with identical values for all the items) will not be selected by the query used to fill the "cache" for reading the next records.

*Example*: The following records are found in the MySQL table named "MyTable":


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| **Record number** | **Value** |
| ... | ... |
| 98 | Tata |
| 99 | Toto |
| 100 | Toto |
| 101 | Toto |
| 102 | Tutu |

The browse code is as follows:


```wl
FOR EACH MyTable
	Trace(MyTable.Value)
END
```


The trace window will display the following values:

- Tata

- Toto

- Toto

- Tutu




One record is missing (Record #101 whose value is equal to "Toto").


