
## How to open a window?
			

<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>
There are different methods for opening or linking windows in an application:

- [modal](#NOTE1_1) opening

- [Modeless](#NOTE2_1) opening

- [MDI](#NOTE3_1) opening

- [Popup](#NOTE4_1) opening







<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Modal opening
<a name="modal_opening_ELTTEXTE000178"></a>
This is the most common opening mode. 

The window that is opened is positioned above the previous windows and blocks the access to the windows below. Generally, most windows of an application (or all of them) are opened in Modal mode. This allows the developer and the user to easily manage the sequence of windows.

Operating mode: 

- [Open](../WDLang1/3038035.md) is used to open a window in Modal mode. The controls found in the windows located below can be accessed by programming.

- [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md) is used to close this window and to give focus back to the window found below.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Modeless window
<a name="modeless_window_ELTTEXTE000202"></a>
This opening mode is less common than the Modal mode. 

The window that is opened is positioned above the previous windows but the user can still access the windows below. The user can click a window that is positioned below and it will be moved to the foreground. 
For example, a person can open the form of a customer who is waiting at the desk and can open another customer form to compare the results, to answer over the phone, ... Therefore, 2 form windows can be opened.

Generally, not all the windows of an application are modeless. Only some windows are opened in this mode. These windows are called "child" windows or "sibling" windows.

The programming required to manage several open windows at the same time may be complex, especially regarding the management of file contexts or global variables. There should not be more than 10 windows open at any given time.

Furthermore, the end user may find it difficult to manage multiple windows open and accessible at the same time.

Operating mode: 

- [OpenChild](../WDLang1/3038021.md) and [OpenSister](../WDLang1/3038045.md) are used to open modeless windows.

- The first opened window always remains below, this window is called the "Parent" window. Modeless windows always remain above the first window, but can switch positions. These are called "child" windows

- If a window is opened above in Modal mode, all windows below are inaccessible.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Opening in MDI (Multi Document Interface)
<a name="opening_mdi_multi_document_interface_ELTTEXTE000226"></a>
This opening mode is less common than the Modal mode. This opening mode is very similar to the modeless mode.

The window that is opened is positioned above the previous windows but the user can still access the windows below. The user can click a window that is positioned below and it will be moved to the foreground. 
For example, a person can open the form of a customer who is waiting at the desk and can open another customer form to compare the results, to answer over the phone...  Therefore, 2 form windows can be opened.

In most cases, only some windows are opened in MDI mode.  These windows are called "child" windows or "sibling" windows.
The programming required to manage several open windows at the same time may be complex, especially regarding the management of file contexts or global variables. There should not be more than 10 windows open at any given time.
Furthermore, the end user may find it difficult to manage multiple windows open and accessible at the same time.

Operating mode: 

- [MDIOpen](../WDLang1/3052005.md) is used to open a window in MDI mode.

- Visually, the first opened window always remains below. This window is called  "MDI parent" window. Windows opened in MDI mode above the first window always remain inside the first window, but can change positions. These are called "MDI child" windows.

- To use the opening mode in MDI, specify in the characteristics of the window whether it is "MDI parent" or "MDI child".

- If a window is opened above in Modal mode, all windows below are inaccessible




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## POPUP opening
<a name="popup_opening_ELTTEXTE000250"></a>
A POPUP window is a window that is displayed above another window at mouse position. This window is automatically closed as soon as a click is performed outside this window.

This type of window may be be very useful to fill a form while lightening the main window.
This display mode can also be very useful to display additional information on a screen.

Operating mode: 

- [OpenPopup](../WDLang1/3038046.md) and [OpenPopupPosition](../WDLang1/3038047.md) are used to open a window in POPUP mode.





