
## How to manage a multi-selection in a List Box control?
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
A **List Box** control is used to select and retrieve a single element among the available elements. The list is in single-selection. 

However, you can configure the List Box control so that it becomes multi-selection. In this case, the user will have the ability to select several elements and to retrieve the selected elements through programming.

The "Multiselection" option of the List Box control is available in the "UI" tab of the control qdescription window.

The user can perform a multi-selection via the standard Shift and Ctrl keys, the arrows and/or the mouse.

Two methods can be used to retrieve the selected elements: 

- [Browsing the selected elements with ListSelect](#NOTE2_1). 

- [Browsing the selected elements via the FOR EACH statement](#NOTE3_1).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Method 1: Using the ListSelect function
<a name="method_1_using_the_listselect_function_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>
This method consists in performing a browse loop with [ListSelect](../WDLang1/3049011.md). 

A variable representing the rank of the selected element will be incremented from the value 1. 

- If [ListSelect](../WDLang1/3049011.md) returns -1: there is no other selected element.

- If [ListSelect](../WDLang1/3049011.md) returns a value greater than 0: this value represents the position of selected element in the List Box control.




To retrieve the value of the selected element, use the following syntax: 


```txt
NameListBoxControl[Subscript]
```


Note: To find out the number of selected elements, use [ListSelectCount](../WDLang1/3049010.md). This allows you to perform a loop with a [FOR](../Motscles/1510001.md) statement instead of a [WHILE](../Motscles/1510010.md) statement.


### Example
<a name="example_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>


```wl
Rank is int
ElementPosition is int
ElementValue is string

Rank = 1
ElementPosition = ListSelect(ListName, Rank)
WHILE ElementPosition<>-1
	ElementValue = ListName[ElementPosition]
	Rank++
	ElementPosition = ListSelect(ListName, Rank)
END
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Method 2: Using the FOR EACH statement
<a name="method_2_using_the_for_each_statement_ELTTEXTE000185"></a>
This method is used to browse the list of selected elements with a specific [FOR EACH](../Motscles/1510017.md) statement. 


### Example
<a name="example_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>


```wl
ElementValue is string
FOR EACH SELECTED ROW OF ListName
	ElementValue = ListName..DisplayedValue
END
```



