
## Error 121: Shadowing a structure
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
A structure was declared: a structure with the same name already exists in the current window or project.

If you keep this name, the "global" structure will no longer be visible in the current process: the local structure will be used instead.

Caution: If a structure global to the project is redefined in the initialization code of the window, the new structure will be used in all the processes of the window and window controls.

**Reminder**: Scope of structures

- The structures declared in the initialization code of the project are visible in the entire project. 

- The structures declared in the opening code of the windows are visible in all the processes of the window and window controls. 

- The structures declared in the declaration code of the classes are visible in all the methods of the class. 




**Differences with version 5.5**:

In WINDEV 5.5, a structure remains public as soon as it is declared. If a structure is declared in the opening process of a window, it remains public and it is recognized by all the other processes even if the window where it was declared is closed.

From WINDEV 11, this affirmation is no longer true: a structure declared in the opening code of the window is accessible as long as the window is opened.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Tip
<a name="tip_ELTTEXTE000104"></a>
Avoid using the same identifiers for different structures.


