
## Error 204: using a parameter without optional value after parameters ...
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Reason
<a name="reason_ELTTEXTE000101"></a>
When declaring this function (or this procedure), optional parameters have been declared. These optional parameters do not respect the declaration syntax of the function (or procedure).

**Reminder**: When declaring a function (or a procedure) that accepts optional parameters, these optional parameters must necessarily be described in last position when declaring the function (or the procedure), with a default value preceded by the "=" sign.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Correction
<a name="correction_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>
Modify the declaration syntax of your function (or procedure):

- move the optional parameters at the end of the declaration of the function (or procedure), 

- give a default value to the last parameter(s).




**Tip**: To use the default value specified in the declaration of the function (or procedure), simply use the ' **\*** ' character instead of the parameter when calling the function.

Example: The declaration code of the function is:


```wl
MyFunction(i, j=5, k=6)
```


The following syntax allows you to use the default value of parameter j and to specify the value of parameter k:


```wl
MyFunction (5, *, 10)
```


<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Example
<a name="example_ELTTEXTE000149"></a>


### Declaring a procedure
<a name="declaring_procedure_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

**Code triggering the error**


```wl
PROCEDURE MyFunction(Param1, Param2=True, Param3=5, Param4)
```


**Possible corrections**

Move the optional parameters: the optional parameters must be the last parameters specified when declaring the function (or the procedure).


```wl
PROCEDURE MyFunction(Param1, Param4, Param2=True, Param3=5)
```


Give a default value to the last parameter of the function (or procedure). This last parameter becomes an optional parameter.


```wl
PROCEDURE MyFunction(Param1, Param2=True, Param3=5, Param4=10)
```



