


## &lt;Page&gt;.FromSource (Function)

***In french: &lt;Page&gt;.DepuisSource***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Automatically updates the controls of a page with: 

- the values of the bound items in the current record (loaded in memory) of the HFSL data file described in the data model editor. 

- the values of the bound WLanguage variables. 


This operation is performed regardless of the state of the controls (grayed, inactive or invisible).

Remarks: 

- **&lt;Page&gt;.FromSource** does not read records on the data file. The value of the record loaded in memory is used to update the controls. Therefore, a record must be loaded in memory previously (with [&lt;Source&gt;.Read](../WDLang4/1000025019.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.ReadSeek](../WDLang4/1000025023.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.ReadFirst](../WDLang4/1000025022.md), etc.).



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
HReadSeekFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME, "PAUL")
IF HFound() = True THEN PAGE_Customer.FromSource()

// Read the record and 
// update the controls with the values from the items
HReadFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME)
PAGE_Customer.FromSource()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Page>.FromSource([<Source>])`
---

**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page where the controls must be updated with the values of the current record in the data file.

If this parameter is not specified or is an empty string (""), the page that contains the current code is used.

**`<Source>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the source the controls to be updated are bound to. This source can be:

- The name of a data file: only the controls bound to the items of the data file are taken into account.

- The name of a WLanguage variable: only the controls bound to the WLanguage variable are taken into account.
	Remarks: 

	- If the name of the variable is enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the specified variable. 

	- If the name of the variable is not enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the variable data (e.g., a variable containing the name of another variable).





If this name is not specified, all the page controls bound to an item of a data file described in the data model editor or to a WLanguage variable will be taken into account.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file
<a name="binding_between_control_and_wlanguage_variable_between_control_and_item_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000228"></a>

The binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file can be determined:

- In the editor, in the control description window ("Binding" tab).

- Programmatically, with the [DataBinding](../Proprietes/2510060.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Binding to an item: types of bindings
<a name="binding_item_types_bindings_ELTPARAGRAPHE000244"></a>

There are two types of bindings between a control and an item

- *direct binding*: In this case, **&lt;Page&gt;.FromSource** transfers the value of the items from the record loaded in memory to the bound control, without reading any values.

- *binding by reading the records in the associated data file*.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000259"></a>

- Space characters in HFSQL items are kept.

- **&lt;Page&gt;.FromSource** updates the Image controls bound to image memo items.

- **&lt;Page&gt;.FromSource** is not available on views. The values of the items must be assigned to each control.

- **Binding with "Secure Password" items**:

	- In an Edit control bound to a Password item, "\*\*\*\*\*" characters are displayed. If the Edit control is of type "Password", dots are displayed instead. 

	- The value of the "Password" item cannot be read again until the user changes the password value.

	- The value of the "Password" item can still be compared to a string (e.g., "" or "1234").







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
