


## &lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnexion***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Dynamically changes the connection associated with a data file. The new connection must be known and defined during this change. This new connection will be used during the next opening of the data file.

This allows you to import a description of Oracle tables into the analysis and to use this description to work on data files in HFSQL format. For more details, see the detailed examples.

**Tips**: 

- To handle connections, it is recommended to use a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).

- **Caution**: The order in which the functions for connecting to an HFSQL Client/Server database are called is important. For more details, see [Optimizing the connection times to the HFSQL Client/Server databases](../WDLang4/9000176.md).





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyConnection is Connection

// Describe the connection
MyConnection.User = "USER"
MyConnection.Password = "PASSWORD"
MyConnection.Server = "MYSERVER" 
MyConnection.Database = "Database"
MyConnection.Provider = hNativeAccessSQLServer
MyConnection.Access = hOReadWrite

// Open the connection
MyConnection.OpenConnection()

// Specify that "Salaries" uses the new connection
Salaries.ChangeConnection(MyConnection)

// Start looping through the "Salaries" table on SQLServer
Salaries.ReadFirst()
...
// Close the connection
MyConnection.CloseConnection()

// Restore the use of connection on Oracle
Salaries.ChangeConnection("")

// Open the "Salaries" table on Oracle
Salaries.Open()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.ChangeConnection(<New connection>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of data file (defined in the analysis) for which the connection must be changed. This data file will be automatically closed in order for its connection to be modified. 

**`<New connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

New connection to use. This parameter can correspond to: 

- the name of the connection to a database. This connection has been defined in the data model editor or dynamically with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md). If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the initial connection is automatically used.

- the name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that corresponds to the new connection to use.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The connection must be known when running **&lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection**. If the data file is not known when using **&lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection**, the connection will be changed during the file declaration.

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection** automatically closes the data file ([&lt;Source&gt;.Close](../WDLang4/1000024958.md)) whose connection must be modified.

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection** does not open the data file or the connection. The connection defined with **&lt;Source&gt;.ChangeConnection** will be used next time the data file is opened




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
