


## &lt;Source&gt;.StatNbDuplicates (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.StatNbDoublon***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the number of duplicates for a given key item. This number of duplicates was calculated during the last calculation of statistics.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Calculate statistics about duplicates on the CustName key of the Customer data file
ResStat = Customer.StatNbDuplicates(CustName)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.StatNbDuplicates([<Key item>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Number of duplicates found. Corresponds to the *hInvalidRecNum* constant if:

- the statistics have never been calculated for the specified item.

- the statistics are not supported by the specified type of item. HFSQL allows you to perform statistical calculations on key items only.




**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of the data file used. 

**`<Key item>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the key item used to calculate statistics. If this name is not specified, **&lt;Source&gt;.StatNbDuplicates** will use the last item used by the last HFSQL management function (function starting with "H").



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The statistics can also be updated by [&lt;Source&gt;.Index](../WDLang4/1000025060.md). [&lt;Source&gt;.Index](../WDLang4/1000025060.md) and [&lt;Source&gt;.StatCalculate](../WDLang4/1000025064.md) are the only two functions that update the statistics of the data file.

- In the HFSQL Classic data files, the statistical calculations can only be performed on key items.

- The number of duplicates corresponds to the total numer of entries less the number of distinct values. For example, if the entries are the numbers: 1, 3, 3, 5, 5, 5, 6, 7, 7, 7, 8, 9, then the number of duplicates is 12-7 = 5.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
