


## ReplicInitialize (Function)

***In french: RéplicInitialise***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Initializes or reinitializes a replication defined by the replication editor (ReplicEdit). This initialization is used to define the parameters of the replication (value of the filters). The necessary data is transferred to the local database.

**Remark**: The subscriber database must be created locally with [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) before using **ReplicInitialize**.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Initializes the replication 
// by passing the zip code to take into account
IF ReplicInfo("MyReplication", replicInitialized) = False THEN
	ReplicInitialize("MyReplication", 47012)
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = ReplicInitialize(<Replication name> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the initialization was performed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. For more details about the problem, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Replication name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the replication to initialize. This name corresponds to:

- the name of ".wer" file, created by ReplicEdit (for an online replication). This file must be found beside the executable.

- the publication name (for a replication server)




**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of parameter, optional)`**

Value of the first parameter for the replication. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the previous initialization of parameters will be canceled.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type of parameter, optional)`**

Value of the Nth parameter for the replication. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the previous initialization of parameters will be canceled.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000087"></a>

The initialization of the replication is used to:

- initialize the parameters of filters if necessary

- re-initialize the parameters of filters to 0.

- reinitialize a replication (deletion and re-creation of the replication elements: .rpp, .rpa, .syn files, ...). 

- reinitialize the information regarding the ranges of identifiers. 




Caution: as soon as a subscriber replica is initialized, you must no longer replace/restore one of the master files (because they contain information regarding the ranges of identifiers for the subscriber replicas). 

	<B><B><B><B>Warning</B></B></B></B>

	From version <B><B><B><B>17</B></B></B></B>, the replication files created with an application or a site in version 17 (or later) cannot be handled by an application or a site in version 16 (or earlier).
The applications or the sites in version 17 (or later) continue to handle the replication files created with an application or a site in version 16 (or earlier). 

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Initializing filters
<a name="initializing_filters_ELTPARAGRAPHE000106"></a>

The parameters must be specified in the order defined in the replication editor (ReplicEdit). In the replication editor, the order of the parameters can be viewed (and modified if necessary) via "Replication .. Replication description", "Parameters" tab.

**Reminder**: To optimize the performance of the universal replication, we advise you to define filters.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280rpl.dll
