


## &lt;Source&gt;.NoModif (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.InterditModif***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Forbids all the modifications on a data file (for all the programs, including the one that requested the no-modification policy). The records can be accessed in read-only.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
Invoice.NoModif()
// Process...
Invoice.EndNoModif()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.NoModif()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if no problem occurred, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) returns more details about the problem.


If the data file is still locked after [H.NbRetry](../WDLang4/3044075.md) attempts, [HErrorLock](../WDLang4/3044099.md) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> (the H.Locked variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>). 
If the data file was locked, [HErrorLock](../WDLang4/3044099.md) returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.

**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of the data file used.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Locks set by &lt;Source&gt;.NoModif
<a name="locks_set_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000217"></a>

**&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif** can lock **in write mode** a file already locked by another program (with **&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif**). Therefore, several programs can forbid the modifications on the same data file at the same time. A locking read function run after **&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif** in the same program reads the record without locking it.

**&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif** cannot lock a data file already locked **in read/write** by another program.
Reminder: the data file cannot be locked by **&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif** only if the data file is locked in read/write by another program.

Remarks:

- In single-user mode ([&lt;Source&gt;.Mode](../WDLang4/1000025037.md)), **&lt;Source&gt;.NoModif** is equivalent to [&lt;Source&gt;.Open](../WDLang4/1000025043.md) (the data files are locked in read/write as soon as they are opened).

- You have the ability to lock a data file whose records are locked by another application.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000259"></a>

- The maximum number of programs that can request the no-modification policy on a data file depends on the size of a record in the data file. It can be calculated as follows: 
	
	```txt
	MaxNbSessionsOrPrograms = RecordSize - 20
	```


- This function is not available when using a database via .




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
