


## &lt;Source&gt;.FreeQuery (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.LibèreRequête***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Frees the resources of a query (after the call to [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/1000024944.md) or [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/1000024948.md)).

**Remark**: This function is based on [&lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration](../WDLang4/1000024192.md). 

**When to use &lt;Source&gt;.FreeQuery?** 
This function can be used when no other process will be using the result coming from a query. We recommend that you use this function on the queries that return an important number of lines (tens of thousands) in order to free the memory space. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Initializes the query
IF MyQuery.ExecuteQuery() = False THEN
	Error("Error while initializing the query" + CR + HErrorInfo())
	RETURN
END

// Read the first record of the query
MyQuery.ReadFirst()
WHILE NOT MyQuery.Out()
	// Process on the query record
	...
	// Read the next record
	MyQuery.ReadNext()
END
MyQuery.FreeQuery()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.FreeQuery()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of a query or a data source associated with a query (for freeing resources after the call to [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/1000024944.md) or [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/1000024948.md)). 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Conditions for using &lt;Source&gt;.FreeQuery
<a name="conditions_for_using_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000261"></a>

This function must be used ONLY when the query is not required anymore!

**In the following example, &lt;Source&gt;.FreeQuery is used too soon: the table will be completely wrong**. The Table control is populated using [BuildBrowsingTable](../WDLang1/3074002.md) in a parallel process in the background. Therefore, **&lt;Source&gt;.FreeQuery** will operate before the Table control is entirely filled, making this control unusable.

```wl
Test.ExecuteSQLQuery("select * from customer")
BuildBrowsingTable(TABLE_Table1, "test")
Test.FreeQuery()
```

**Remark**: The problem can also occur with a "data source" variable. A "data source" variable declared locally in a process (button click, procedure, method, etc.) ONLY exists during the execution of this code. For this reason, a "warning" is displayed when you are using this type of data source: "the data source will be destroyed at the end of this code".

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
