


## HDeleteServerTrigger (Function)

***In french: HDétruitTriggerServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deletes a server trigger. This server trigger cannot be used anymore.

**Remark**: The functions for handling the server triggers are advanced functions. The server triggers can be created directly in the data model editor. For more details, see [Server triggers](../WDLang4/3044369.md).




<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Deleting a server trigger (logical HFSQL files)

`HDeleteServerTrigger(<Trigger> , <Logical HFSQL Client/Server files>)`
---

**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to delete. This name was defined with [HDescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000017033.md).

**`<Logical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Character string)`**

Logical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files. 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (",").  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Deleting a server trigger on physical HFSQL files associated with a connection

`<Result> = HDeleteServerTrigger(<Connection> , <Trigger> [, <Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to use. This connection corresponds to: 

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to delete. This name was defined with [HDescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000017033.md).

**`<Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Optional character string)`**

Physical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files associated with the connection ("CUSTOMER.FIC" for example). 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (","). 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), the trigger will be enabled on all the data files of the database.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
