


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.ManageTask (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.GèreTâche***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables a scheduled task on an HFSQL Client/Server server. This function can also be used to find out the status of a scheduled task.

It gives you the ability to disable a task (during the holidays for example) then to re-enable it.



<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Enabling/Disabling a scheduled task

`<Result> = <Connection>.ManageTask(<Scheduled task> [, <Enable/Disable>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**

Old task management mode (before calling **&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ManageTask**):

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the task was enabled, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the task was disabled.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection for which the task must be managed.

**`<Scheduled task>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of scheduled task to handle. This identifier is given by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.AddTask](../WDLang4/1000022645.md) and [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ListTask](../WDLang4/1000022700.md).

**`<Enable/Disable>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to enable the task, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to disable the task.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out the status of a scheduled task

`<Result> = <Connection>.ManageTask(<Scheduled task>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the task is enabled, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the task is disabled.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection for which the task must be managed.

**`<Scheduled task>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of scheduled task to handle. This identifier is given by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.AddTask](../WDLang4/1000022645.md) and [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ListTask](../WDLang4/1000022700.md).



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
