
## HReconnect (Function)

***In french: HReconnecte***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Establishes a reconnection to the server for all the interrupted connections. The uninterrupted connections are not modified.  

**Remarks**:

- To use this feature, the HFSQL server and the client application must be in version 14 or later.

- By default, when a connection error occurs, the mechanism for assisted management of errors displays a window or a page allowing the user to reconnect. This mechanism can be customized by [HOnError](../WDLang4/3044017.md).  











<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HReconnect()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the reconnection was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns more details about the problem.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Reconnection to the server
<a name="reconnection_the_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

An application can lose the connection to the server for one of the following reasons:

- loss of GPRS link.

- intervention on the network.

- update of the server.

- crash of the server.

- standby of the client computer.




**HReconnect** allows the client to reconnect to the server without having to restart the application.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Limits
<a name="limits_ELTPARAGRAPHE000101"></a>

The reconnection cannot be performed in the following cases: 

- The application includes a transaction in progress. Indeed, the transaction was automatically canceled by the server when the client was disconnected.

- The application has locked the entire data file.

- The application has performed a "read/write" lock on a data file.

- The application has performed a lock in "write mode" on a data file and another application has modified this record while the application was not connected.

- The application performed a lock in write mode with [HFirst](../WDLang4/3044113.md), [HNext](../WDLang4/3044027.md), [HPrevious](../WDLang4/3044112.md) or [HLast](../WDLang4/3044101.md).

- A view or a query is currently filled and a browse was started on this view or query.




In these different cases, &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
