


## &lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.AnnuleDéclaration***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to: 

- Delete a declaration previously made with [&lt;Source&gt;.Declare](../WDLang4/1000024213.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.DeclareExternal](../WDLang4/1000024214.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.DescribeFile](../WDLang4/1000024215.md). After this operation, the data file is no longer recognized by the HFSQL engine.

- Free the resources of a query (after calling [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/1000024944.md) or [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/1000024948.md)).





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// The Customer data file was declared beforehand in the analysis 
// by HDeclareExternal
Customer.Close()
Customer.CancelDeclaration()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.CancelDeclaration()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Corresponds to: 

- the name of data file (defined in the analysis). If this name is not specified, **&lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration** handles the last data file used.

- the name of query or data source associated with a query (when freeing resources once [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/1000024944.md) or [&lt;Source&gt;.ExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/1000024948.md) has been used).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Conditions for using &lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration
<a name="conditions_for_using_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000263"></a>

This function must be used ONLY when the relevant data file (or query) is not used anymore!

**In the following example, &lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration is used too soon: the content of the Table control will be completely distorted**. The Table control is populated using [BuildBrowsingTable](../WDLang1/3074002.md) in a parallel process in the background. Therefore, **&lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration** will be called before the table is entirely filled, making this table unusable.


```wl
HExecuteSQLQuery("test", "select * from customer")
BuildBrowsingTable(TABLE_Table1, "test")
HCancelDeclaration("test")
```
**Remark**: The problem can also occur with a "data source" variable. A "data source" variable declared locally in a process or event (button click, procedure, method, etc.) ONLY exists while this code is run. For this reason, a "warning" is displayed when you are using this type of data source: "the data source will be destroyed at the end of this code".
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### &lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration and closing the data file
<a name="docparampagetitleshort_and_closing_the_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000286"></a>

To use **&lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration** on a data file, this data file must be closed.

If a query, a subquery or a view uses the data file, **&lt;Source&gt;.CancelDeclaration** cannot be executed, even after calling [&lt;Source&gt;.Close](../WDLang4/1000024958.md). The queries or views that are using the data file must be freed beforehand.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
