
## &lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.VersFenêtre***

<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Automatically initializes the controls of a window with:

- the values of the bound items in the current record (loaded in memory) of the HFSL data file described in the data model editor. This operation is performed regardless of the state of the controls (grayed, inactive or invisible).

- the values of the bound WLanguage variables. This operation is performed regardless of the state of the controls (grayed, inactive or invisible).




**Remarks**: 

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** does not read records on the data file. The value of the record loaded in memory is used to update the controls. Therefore, a record must be loaded in memory previously: 

	- [&lt;Source&gt;.Read](../WDLang4/1000025019.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.ReadSeek](../WDLang4/1000025023.md), [&lt;Source&gt;.ReadFirst](../WDLang4/1000025022.md), etc. 

	- [&lt;Looper&gt;.Display](../WDLang2/1000023451.md) for a Looper control, etc.






<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Searches for customer in the data file
HReadSeekFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME, "PAUL")
IF HFound() = True THEN
	// Displays the client found in the current window
	CUSTOMER.ToWindow()
END

// Read the record and 
// transfer items to the controls in WIN_Customer
HReadFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME)
CUSTOMER.ToWindow(WIN_Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Source>.ToWindow([<Window>])`
---

**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Source to which the items to be updated are bound. For example, this source can be:

- The name of a data file: only the controls bound to the items of the data file are taken into account.

- The name of a WLanguage variable: only the controls bound to the WLanguage variable are taken into account. The control will be bound to the variable data (e.g., a variable containing the name of another variable).




**`<Window>: (Window name)`**

Name of the window containing the controls to be updated.

Summary: Called when a control gains focus.





<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file
<a name="binding_between_control_and_wlanguage_variable_between_control_and_item_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000251"></a>

The binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file can be determined:

- In the editor, in the control description window ("Binding" tab).

- Programmatically, with the [DataBinding](../Proprietes/2510060.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Binding to an item: types of bindings
<a name="binding_item_types_bindings_ELTPARAGRAPHE000267"></a>

There are two types of bindings between a control and an item

- *direct binding*: In this case, **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** transfers the value of the items from the record loaded in memory to the bound control, without reading any values.

- *binding by reading the records in the associated data file*.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000282"></a>

- **Auto-filled Combo Box control bound to an HFSQL data file**: **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** must not be in the window "Global declarations" event. The function must be in the "Initialization" event of the window.

- Space characters in HFSQL items are kept.

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** updates Image controls with the value of the bound image memo items.

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** supports the NULL value. If the item content is NULL, an empty string will be displayed in the bound Edit control. To change this display mode, use [ControlError](../WDLang1/3025036.md).

- **&lt;Source&gt;.ToWindows** is not available on views. The values of the items must be assigned to each control.

- **Binding with "Secure Password" items**:

	- In an Edit control bound to a Password item, "\*\*\*\*\*" characters are displayed. If the Edit control is of type "Password", dots are displayed instead. 

	- The value of the "Password" item cannot be read again until the user changes the password value.

	- The value of the "Password" item can still be compared to a string (e.g., "" or "1234").







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
