


## SourceFromPage (Function)

***In french: SourceDepuisPage***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Automatically updates:

- the value of the items in a data file with the value of the controls in the page. The data file items bound to the page controls are automatically updated with the values of these controls.

- the value of the WLanguage variables with the value of the page controls. The WLanguage variables bound to the page controls are automatically updated with the values of these controls.


This operation is performed regardless of the state of the controls (grayed, inactive or invisible).

**Remarks**: 

- **SourceFromPage** cannot be used to write to the data file: only variables of the data file items are assigned (i.e. variables of the record loaded in memory). To modify the records, use [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md), [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md), [HWrite](../WDLang4/3044092.md), etc.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click on BTN_ADD
SourceFromPage(Customer, PAGE_Customer)
HAdd(Customer)
IF HErrorDuplicates() = True THEN
	Error("This number already exists")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`SourceFromPage(<Source> [, <Page>])`
---

**`<Source>: (Character string)`**

Name of the source containing the data to update. This source can be:

- The name of a data file: only the controls bound to the items of the data file are taken into account.

- The name of a WLanguage variable: only the controls bound to the WLanguage variable are taken into account.
	Remarks: 

	- If the name of the variable is enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the specified variable. 

	- If the name of the variable is not enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the variable data (e.g., a variable containing the name of another variable).  







**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page that contains the controls.
If this parameter is not specified or is an empty string (""), the page that contains the current code is used.




<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file
<a name="binding_between_control_and_wlanguage_variable_between_control_and_item_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

The binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file can be determined:

- In the editor, in the control description window ("Binding" tab)

- Programmatically, with the [DataBinding](../Proprietes/2510060.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Updating the items: Special cases
<a name="updating_the_items_special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

- To automatically assign the NULL value to an item with **SourceFromPage**:

	1. Check "NULL supported" for the item in the data model editor.

	2. Select the "NULL if empty" option in the Edit control bound to the item.




- The items of the data file that are not bound to a control are not updated by **SourceFromPage**.

- If multiple controls in the page are bound to the same data file item, **SourceFromPage** may not update the bound item properly. ***It is not recommended to bind multiple page controls to the same item***.

- **SourceFromPage** does not update the items with the values from Image controls. Use the [HLinkMemo](../WDLang4/3044173.md) function.

- **SourceFromPage** is not available on views.

- **Binding with "Secure Password" items**: The value of the "Password" item cannot be modified until the user changes the value in the control bound to the item.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Updating data in the Table control (or in Looper controls)
<a name="updating_data_the_table_control_looper_controls_ELTPARAGRAPHE000147"></a>

**SourceFromPage** has no effect on the content of a Table control. 

The actual data transfer from a Table control to its data source (data file or variable) is performed when saving. This saving is performed: 

- when the input is finished if the option "Save during row exit (Modif.)" is selected ("Details" tab of the Table control description window).

- with the [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md) function.




The same principle applies to the Looper controls bound to a data source.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280.dll
