


## HActivateServerTrigger (Function)

***In french: HActiveTriggerServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Re-enables a server trigger previously disabled by [HDeactivateServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000017035.md).

**Remark**: The functions for handling the server triggers are advanced functions. The server triggers can be created directly in the data model editor. For more details, see [Server triggers](../WDLang4/3044369.md).



<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Activating a server trigger (logical files)

`<Result> = HActivateServerTrigger(<Trigger> , <Logical HFSQL Client/Server files>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to activate. This name was defined with [HDescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000017033.md).

**`<Logical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Character string)`**

Logical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files. To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (",").  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Activating a server trigger on physical files associated with a connection

`<Result> = HActivateServerTrigger(<Connection> , <Trigger> [, <Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to use. Corresponds to: 

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md). 




**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to activate. This name was defined with [HDescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000017033.md).

**`<Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Optional character string)`**

Physical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files associated with the connection ("CUSTOMER.FIC" for example). 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (","). 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), the trigger will be enabled on all the data files of the database associated to the connection.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
