


## &lt;Source&gt;.SetDuplicates (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.GèreDoublon***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the management of duplicates on a unique key.

**Remarks**: 

- The management of duplicates is enabled by default.

- This function is not available on databases accessed by OLE DB or by Native Connectors (also called Native Accesses). 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Disable the management of duplicates on the Customer data file for the "Name" key
Customer.SetDuplicates(Name, False)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.SetDuplicates([<Key item>, ] <Activation>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**

Former management mode of duplicates (before the call to **&lt;Source&gt;.SetDuplicates**): 

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the management of duplicates was enabled,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the management of duplicates was disabled (or if the specified key is a key with duplicates). 


If &lt;Key item&gt; = "\*", &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the check for duplicates was enabled for at least one item in the former management mode of duplicates. 


**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of the data file used.

**`<Key item>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of unique key item used. 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to "\*", the management of duplicates is taken into account for all the key items in the specified data file.

**`<Activation>: (Boolean)`**

Management mode: 

- <u><u><u><u>True </u></u></u></u> if the management of duplicates must be enabled on the item,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if this management must be disabled. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Management of duplicates enabled
<a name="management_duplicates_enabled_ELTPARAGRAPHE000283"></a>

If the management of duplicates is enabled on a key defined as unique key, the uniqueness is automatically checked whenever a record is added or modified in the data file.

Therefore, if the uniqueness is not checked during an addition ([&lt;Source&gt;.Add](../WDLang4/1000024187.md)) or a modification ([&lt;Source&gt;.Modify](../WDLang4/1000025038.md)), the record is not added/modified, the addition/modification function returns an error and [HErrorDuplicates](../WDLang4/3044077.md) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.

**Remark**: Only [&lt;Source&gt;.Add](../WDLang4/1000024187.md) and [&lt;Source&gt;.Modify](../WDLang4/1000025038.md) can generate a duplicate error.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Generalizing the check for duplicates
<a name="generalizing_the_check_for_duplicates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000324"></a>

To generalize the management mode of duplicates to all the items found in a data file, use the meta-character "\*". 
For example:

```txt
<Data file>.SetDuplicates("*", <Activation>)
```

<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Disabling the check for duplicates
<a name="disabling_the_check_for_duplicates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000353"></a>

Disabling the check for duplicates means the possibility not to comply with the uniqueness rules specified during the description of the data files in the data model editor. Therefore, disabling the check for duplicates must be done with great care: it must be used advisedly.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
