


## &lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineAdd (Function)

***In french: &lt;redisConnexion&gt;.PipelineAjoute***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a Redis command in a pipeline. This makes it possible to send a group of commands to a Redis server and optimize network access performance.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
gRedis.PipelineAdd("set p1 pv1")
gRedis.PipelineAdd("set p2 pv2")
gRedis.PipelineAdd("get p2")
gRedis.PipelineAdd("get p1")

r1 is redisResponse = gRedis.PipelineGet()
r2 is redisResponse = gRedis.PipelineGet()
r3 is redisResponse = gRedis.PipelineGet()
r4 is redisResponse = gRedis.PipelineGet()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Connection>.PipelineAdd(<Command> [, <Parameter 1> [, <Parameter N>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the addition was performed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Connection>: (redisConnection variable)`**

Name of the [redisConnection](../WDLang4/1000023527.md) variable that corresponds to the Redis server connection.

**`<Command>: (Character string)`**

Text of the Redis command to execute.
This command can contain parameters separated by space characters.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of optional parameter)`**

First optional parameter of the command. This parameter allows you to pass strings containing spaces or binary values to the command being run.
Remark: The strings are converted to UTF-8 when the command is sent to the Redis server.
$~ ... |

**`<Parameter N>: (Type of optional parameter)`**

Nth command parameter. This parameter allows you to pass strings containing spaces or binary values to the command being run.
Remark: The strings are converted to UTF-8 when the command is sent to the Redis server.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### How the pipeline works
<a name="how_the_pipeline_works_ELTPARAGRAPHE000196"></a>

When all the desired commands have been added to the pipeline, the results can be retrieved with [&lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineGet](../WDLang4/1410088285.md).

To avoid retrieving the results, it is possible to use [&lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineReset](../WDLang4/1410088284.md).

If [&lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineReset](../WDLang4/1410088284.md) has not been used, there must be as many calls to [&lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineGet](../WDLang4/1410088285.md) as there are to **&lt;redisConnection&gt;.PipelineAdd**.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280big.dll
