


## ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic and for HFSQL Client/Server (Windows)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000235"></a>
The ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic (single-user or multi-user) is used to access an HFSQL Classic database from an external database software that supports the accesses by ODBC.

The ODBC driver for HFSQL Client/Server allows access to an HFSQL Client/Server database from an external database software that supports access via ODBC.

The driver is available in read/write. An application written in external language can read and write in HFSQL files.

The ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic and HFSQL Client/Server is an ODBC driver of level 3. The ODBC driver offers several additional features such as:

- better support for the UNICODE standard, 

- support for transactions, 

- multiple bookmarks on the tables, 

- search by wildcard on the schema tables, 

- management of cursors by block. 


See a specific documentation for more details.



Remark: This help page explains how to install the ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic and HFSQL Client/Server for Windows. The setup of the ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic and HFSQL Client/Server for Linux is presented in the help page named [ODBC driver for HFSQL Linux](../WDLang4/9000160.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Setup
<a name="setup_ELTTEXTE000265"></a>
The ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic and HFSQL Client/Server can be installed when installing WINDEV or WEBDEV on the development computer.

Furthermore, when configuring the setup program of your WINDEV applications or WEBDEV sites, you have the ability to include the setup of the ODBC driver for HFSQL (Classic or Client/Server).

**Remarks**: 

- The ODBC driver is installed in the "Program Files\\Common Files\\PC Soft\\28.0\\ODBC" directory.

- If necessary, the setup program of the ODBC driver (WX280PACKODBC.EXE) is found in the "Install\\ODBC" directory of WINDEV or WEBDEV. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Configuration
<a name="configuration_ELTTEXTE000289"></a>


### Using the ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic or Client/Server
<a name="using_the_odbc_driver_for_hfsql_classic_clientserver_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

To use the ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic or Client/Server: 

1. Start the ODBC data administrator (ODBCAD32.EXE) on your computer. To do so, select "Start .. Run" from Windows and type "ODBCAD32.EXE".
	**Remark**: In Windows Vista (or higher) in 64 bits, start "c:\\windows\\syswow64\\odbcad32.exe".

2. Select the "User database" tab.

3. Click the "Add" button.

4. Select the "HyperFileSQL" driver.

5. Click "Done".

6. Enter the name of the HFSQL data source. This name will be used to identify the HFSQL database in the external programs.

7. Click the "Details" button.

8. Use the browse buttons to select the WDD file corresponding to the analysis.

9. In the list of analyses, select the requested analysis and validate.

10. If the database is in "HFSQL Classic" format, check "HFSQL Classic" and select the directory of the data files via the browse button. All the HFSQL Classic data files corresponding to the selected analysis are grouped in this directory. 
	Caution: a file directory must be selected for each analysis. 
	Validate ("OK" button).

11. If the database is in "HFSQL Client/Server" format, check "HFSQL Client/Server" and specify the parameters for connecting to the server:

	- The server address,

	- The port,

	- The name of the database to use, 

	- The user name used to access the database, 

	- The password associated with the user. The password is stored in encrypted format.




12. Validate ("OK" button).




The database can be used in read/write from the external programs via the ODBC driver for HFSQL Classic or Client/Server.

The connection string to the HFSQL Classic driver must have the following format:


```txt
DRIVER={HFSQL};ANA=<Chemin du fichier WDD>;REP=<Répertoire des données>
```

For example: 
```txt
Driver={HFSQL};ANA=C:\Mes Projets\CRM\CRM.wdd;REP=C:\Mes Projets\CRM\Exe; IntegrityCheck=1
```


The connection string to the HFSQL driver in Client/Server mode must have the following format:


```txt
DRIVER={HFSQL};Server Name=127.0.0.1;Server Port=4900;
Database=dbName;UID=username;PWD=password; IntegrityCheck=1
```


**Remarks**: 

- To use the HFSQL database with a PHP site, you must define a "system" ODBC source (rather than a "user" one).

- The "IntegrityCheck" parameter allows you to indicate that the integrity and duplicate management rules must be checked during modifications, additions and deletions.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Managing OPEN FILE queries
<a name="managing_open_file_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

To use the OPEN FILE queries on HFSQL files, you must specify:

- the PATH keyword to change the file directory.

- the USING keyword to specify the file password.




The syntax is as follows:


```txt
OPEN FILE <Nom du fichier> [PATH <Répertoire du fichier>] [USING <Mot de passe du fichier>]
```
**Example**:


```sql
OPEN FILE Client PATH "C:\Temp\Mon test" USING monmotdepasse
```
**Remark**: The file names, the directory names and the passwords can be enclosed in quotes if they contain space characters.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Accessing HFSQL Client/Server files
<a name="accessing_hfsql_clientserver_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000137"></a>

The OPEN FILE queries also allow you to access the HFSQL CLient/Server databases. To do so, specify: 

- the server to use via the SERVER keyword.

- the database to use via the DATABASE keyword.

- the user via the USER keyword.

- the directory of the files via the PATH keyword.




**Example**:


```sql
OPEN FILE * SERVER ServeurTest DATABASE Exemple USER Admin PATH "MaBaseHFCS"
```
**Remark**: The file names, the directory names and the passwords can be enclosed in quotes if they contain space characters.
<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### INSERT query
<a name="insert_query_ELTPARAGRAPHE000154"></a>

When running an INSERT query, the **SQL.IDAuto** variable contains the automatic identifier that was added during the previous INSERT.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Notes and limitations
<a name="notes_and_limitations_ELTTEXTE000331"></a>


### Deleting a driver
<a name="deleting_driver_ELTPARAGRAPHE000163"></a>

When the DLLs are deleted from a driver, the data sources that use this driver must be deleted beforehand. Otherwise, the application may be locked.
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Using the most recent version of the driver
<a name="using_the_most_recent_version_the_driver_ELTPARAGRAPHE000170"></a>

To use the most recent version of a driver, you must delete the data source and re-create it by using the proposed "HyperFileSQL" driver.
<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Access 2000
<a name="access_2000_ELTPARAGRAPHE000177"></a>

When importing a table from an ODBC data source into Access 2000, the HFSQL Classic data source must be defined as "Computer data source" (instead of "File data source").
<a name="NOTE4_4"></a>


### Remark
<a name="remark_ELTPARAGRAPHE000186"></a>

The ODBC driver supports the Unicode format.


