


## HTransactionFree (Function)

***In french: HTransactionLibère***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Transforms all the records "in transaction" into "normal" records if these records do not belong to a transaction currently in progress. If a record found in the specified data file is considered as being in transaction but does not belong to a transaction in progress, it is automatically freed.

**Caution**: this function is an advanced function. This feature must be used when it is not possible to cancel the transactions that have failed (deleted transaction files for example).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Frees all the records in transaction that may be used
HTransactionFree(Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Freeing a data file

`<Result> = HTransactionFree([<Data file>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation is performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns more details about the error.




**`<Data file>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the HFSQL Classic or Client/Server data file for which the records in transaction must be freed. 
If this parameter is not specified, **HTransactionFree** handles the last data file used.
 



<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Freeing a record found in a data file

`<Result> = HTransactionFree([<Data file>, ] <Record number>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation is performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns more details about the error.




**`<Data file>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the HFSQL Classic or HFSQL Client/Server data file for which the record in transaction must be freed. 
If this parameter is not specified, **HTransactionFree** handles the last data file used.


**`<Record number>: (Integer)`**

Number of the record to be removed. 
If this parameter set to 0 or to the *hCurrentRecNum* constant, **HTransactionFree** will read the current record.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000157"></a>

- This function can only be used for the data files in HFSQL format. For all the other types of data files, this function has no effect and it returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.

- The records that cannot be read (locked records for example) are ignored.

- This function can be used to free the transactions performed on data files in an HFSQL cluster.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Handling records during a transaction
<a name="handling_records_during_transaction_ELTPARAGRAPHE000177"></a>

During a transaction, some rules must be complied with when handling the records. For more details, see [Transactions: Handling records during a transaction](../WDLang4/3044336.md).
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Transactions and independent HFSQL context
<a name="transactions_and_independent_hfsql_context_ELTPARAGRAPHE000189"></a>

When copying a context, if a transaction is in progress on the first context, the new context is not in transaction. You must call [HTransactionStart](../WDLang4/3044002.md) (or [HTransaction](../WDLang4/1000023384.md)) to start a transaction in the new context.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
