


## HSetPosition (Function)

***In french: HPositionne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Sets the position on a record, based on the approximate position of one of its items. The record is read.

This function can be used with the data files, HFSQL views or queries.

**Caution**: **HSetPosition** can only be used to set a position. To find out the current position, use [HGetCurrentPosition](../WDLang4/3044109.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1000003044110&name=hsetposition_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
HSetPosition(Customer, Name, 500)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HSetPosition(<Data file> [, <Item>] , <Position> [, <Precision>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the positioning was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) returns more details about the problem. If no record corresponds, [HOut](../WDLang4/3044094.md) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> and no record is read.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file, view or query used. 
If this name is not specified, **HSetPosition** will use the last data file used by the last HFSQL function (function starting with "H").

**`<Item>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the item used. 
If this name is not specified, **HSetPosition** will use the last item used by the last HFSQL management function (function starting with "H").

**`<Position>: (Integer)`**

Approximate position to fix. This position must be found in the [1;1000] interval.

**`<Precision>: (Optional integer)`**

Defines the precision with which the position is performed. Caution: The higher the precision, the longer it takes to be positioned in the file.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *hPrecisionHigh* | High precision. |
| *hPrecisionLow* | Low precision. |
| *hPrecisionMedium*<br>(default value) | Medium precision. |





<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Position in relation to a key item or to a non-key item
<a name="position_relation_key_item_nonkey_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000155"></a>

- **For a key item**, the position is relative to the order of the record in the index of this item.

- **For a non-key item**, the position is relative to the number of the record in the data file (see [HRecNum](../WDLang4/3044063.md)).



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Position in a filtered iteration
<a name="position_filtered_iteration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

If a filter with bounds is defined ([HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md) without condition string but with lower and upper bounds), the position is relative to the records selected by the filter.

If a condition string is given to [HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md), the position ignores the filter.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
