


## HStopServer (Function)

***In french: HArrêteServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Stops an HFSQL server. Then, the server can be restarted by [HStartServer](../WDLang4/3044318.md).

**Remark**: To perform this action, the user must have specific rights on the server.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Describe the connection
HDescribeConnection("MyConnection", "Julia", "Password", "MyHFServer", ...
	"MyDatabase", hAccessHFClientServer, HORead)
// Open the connection
HOpenConnection("MyConnection")
...
HStopServer("MyConnection")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HStopServer(<Connection>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the server was stopped, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection for which the server must be stopped. This connection corresponds to:

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Stopping server
<a name="stopping_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

If Client applications are currently used when the server is stopped, an error message ("Server not available") will be displayed during the next action performed by the client application on the server.

**Remark**: The server may not be restarted immediately once it has been stopped. The operating system does not immediately close the connections already established between the client computers and the server. Simply wait a few minutes (depending on the operating system timeout) before restarting the server.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Managing rights
<a name="managing_rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

- To stop the server, the user or user group must have specific rights (*hRightsStopServer* constant).

- To find out whether a user or a group of users has sufficient rights, use [HInfoServerRights](../WDLang4/3044322.md).

- To modify the rights granted to a user or user group on the server, use [HModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/3044328.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
