


## HOptimize (Function)

***In french: HOptimize***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to handle the idle periods of a software (period without processes) to optimize the queries and the browses that will be run thereafter. Optimizes the access to the indexes of HFSQL Classic data files (the indexes of HFSQL Client/Server data files cannot be optimized). 

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
HOptimize(Customer, Name)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HOptimize([<Data file> [, <Key item>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the file was optimized, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns more details.




**`<Data file>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the HFSQL Classic data file used. If this parameter is not specified, **HOptimize** will use the last data file used by the last HFSQL management function (function starting with "H").

**`<Key item>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the key item to optimize. If this parameter is not specified, **HOptimize** optimizes all the keys in the data file.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Differences between HOptimize and HOptimizeQuery
<a name="differences_between_hoptimize_and_hoptimizequery_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

- **HOptimize** loads the system caches with the entire index of the data file. There is a risk of overloading the system caches if the data file is very large or if the application uses several large data files. 
	To avoid the risk of overload, avoid calling HOptimize on a large number of data files or key items.

- [HOptimizeQuery](../WDLang4/3044003.md) loads the system caches with only the index parts needed for the specified query (for all the data files used by the query). This function is used to optimize the queries.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000089"></a>

- **HOptimize** immediately gives control back to the program and is run in the background.

- **HOptimize** has no effect on non-key items or on data files that are not in HFSQL Classic format.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
