


## HInitSubscriber (Function)

***In french: HInitAbonné***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Initializes the range of automatic identifiers for the description file of subscriber replica (".RPL" extension). **This function can be used with log-based replication only**. 

The range of automatic identifiers is initialized:

- automatically, when creating a data file ([HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md), [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md)).

- manually, by **HInitSubscriber**.




**HInitSubscriber** must be called only when the data files are installed on the subscriber.

**Caution**: The data files must be opened before **HInitSubscriber** is used.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Initialize range of auto IDs for the Customer data file
HInitSubscriber("Customer", "C:\DATA\Replic\ParisSubscriber.RPL")

// Initialize range of auto IDs for all data files
HInitSubscriber("*", "C:\DATA\Replic\ParisSubscriber.RPL")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HInitSubscriber(<Data file> , <Subscriber Replica>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the initialization was performed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of HFSQL data file to use.
If this parameter is equal to "\*", the ranges of identifiers will be initialized for all the data files described as "replicated" in the analysis.

**`<Subscriber Replica>: (Character string)`**

Name and full path of subscriber replica. This parameter can correspond to a UNC path.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Range of identifiers
<a name="range_identifiers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000090"></a>

The automatic identifiers for the files of subscriber replicas are using a range of identifiers that differs from the one used by the file of master replica and by the other files of subscriber replicas.

This range of automatic identifiers is written in the header of each data file (".FIC" extension).
This range is initialized:

- when creating a data file ([HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md), [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md)).

- via [WDReplic](../WDReplic/3520016.md).

- when **HInitSubscriber** is used.




The range of identifiers is returned by [MinAutoID](../Proprietes/2512039.md) and [MaxAutoID](../Proprietes/2512023.md).

For more details, see the [consequences of implementing the replication](../WDLang4/3044246.md). 
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Replication and log process
<a name="replication_and_log_process_ELTPARAGRAPHE000131"></a>

If **HInitSubscriber** is used, the location of logs and operation tables must also be initialized ([HChangeLogDir](../WDLang4/3044164.md), [LogDirectory](../Proprietes/2512075.md) and [OperationLogDirectory](../Proprietes/2512076.md)).

**Reminder**: Log-based replication uses logs and operation tables of data files. Log-based replication does not work if the location of the logs and operation tables is invalid.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280rpl.dll
