


## HCancelDeclaration (Function)

***In french: HAnnuleDéclaration***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to: 

- Delete a declaration previously made with [HDeclare](../WDLang4/3044203.md), [HDeclareExternal](../WDLang4/3044204.md), [HDescribeFile](../WDLang4/3044206.md). After this operation, the data file is no longer recognized by the HFSQL engine.

- Free the resources of a query (after calling [HExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/3044080.md) or [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md)).





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// The Customer data file was declared beforehand in the analysis 
// by HDeclareExternal
HClose(Customer)
HCancelDeclaration(Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HCancelDeclaration([<Data file>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Data file>: (Optional character string)`**

Corresponds to: 

- the name of data file (defined in the analysis). If this name is not specified, **HCancelDeclaration** handles the last data file used.

- the name of query or data source associated with a query (when freeing resources once [HExecuteQuery](../WDLang4/3044080.md) or [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md) has been used).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Conditions for using HCancelDeclaration
<a name="conditions_for_using_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

This function must be used ONLY when the relevant data file (or query) is not used anymore!

**In the following example, HCancelDeclaration is used too soon: the content of the Table control will be completely distorted**. The Table control is populated using [BuildBrowsingTable](../WDLang1/3074002.md) in a parallel process in the background. Therefore, **HCancelDeclaration** will be called before the table is entirely filled, making this table unusable.


```wl
HExecuteSQLQuery("test", "select * from customer")
BuildBrowsingTable(TABLE_Table1, "test")
HCancelDeclaration("test")
```
**Remark**: The problem can also occur with a "data source" variable. A "data source" variable declared locally in a process or event (button click, procedure, method, etc.) ONLY exists while this code is run. For this reason, a "warning" is displayed when you are using this type of data source: "the data source will be destroyed at the end of this code".
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### HCancelDeclaration and closing the data file
<a name="docparampagetitleshort_and_closing_the_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000141"></a>

To use **HCancelDeclaration** on a data file, this data file must be closed.

If a query, a subquery or a view uses the data file, **HCancelDeclaration** cannot be executed, even after calling [HClose](../WDLang4/3044073.md). The queries or views that are using the data file must be freed beforehand.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
