
## HRplFilterProcedure (Function)

***In french: hRPlProcédureFiltre***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Defines the WLanguage procedure that will be called whenever a replication operation is performed on a specific data file. This procedure is run by [HCreateMovableReplica](../WDLang4/3044209.md) and [HSynchronizeReplica](../WDLang4/3044014.md).

**Remark: This function can be used during the universal replication only.**

Note: The replication is not available when accessing a database via .




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// The procedure validates the messages. 
// MessageValidation will be called for each replicated message
HRplFilterProcedure(Messages, "MessageValidation")

// Prepare to send messages to Paris (from MPL)
HCreateMovableReplica("P:\MSG\MSG.RPM", "Paris", "C:\Temp\MsgMPL.zip")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HRplFilterProcedure(<File name> , <Procedure name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurred (the specified tables and items do not exist for example). [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error. 
	Caution: &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> even if the specified files/tables are not replicated.




**`<File name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file or table on which the procedure must be run.

**`<Procedure name>: (Character string corresponding to a WLanguage procedure)`**

Name of a WLanguage procedure found in the WINDEV application or in the WEBDEV site. This procedure must be created in your application. This procedure expects no parameter. This procedure is called before each operation performed on the destination file. Several variables can be used in this procedure. If this procedure returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>, the operation is not performed. This procedure is used to:

- filter the records that must not be replicated.

- manage the conflicts, by adjusting the values before a duplicate error occurs.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>


<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280rpl.dll
