
## WEBDEV: Native AS/400 Connector for PHP
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000087"></a>
WEBDEV allows you to create Internet or Intranet sites, in native mode or in PHP. The PHP sites can access the resources of your AS/400 or iSeries.

**Reminder**: The creation of a site in PHP requires no specific knowledge in PHP. The programming is performed in WLanguage and WEBDEV automatically generates the necessary PHP code.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Necessary conditions
<a name="necessary_conditions_ELTTEXTE000111"></a>


### On the development computer:
<a name="the_development_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

- Install the Native AS/400 Connector. The Native AS/400 Connector allows you to easily import AS/400 files into the project analysis.

- Install the PHP framework (PHP scripts) for AS/400. Once this framework is installed, we advise you to recompile the WEBDEV project.

- Install the Native AS/400 Connector for PHP.  




Once all these elements are installed, you have the ability to develop WEBDEV PHP sites that access the AS/400 data.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### On the deployment computer:
<a name="the_deployment_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000031"></a>

- Install the WEBDEV PHP site (with WDDeploy or by FTP for example).

- Install the Native AS/400 Connector for PHP.




**Remark**: Several architectures can be used in deployment:

- A front-end server (equipped with a PHP engine version 4 or 5) to your iSeries or AS/400 server (v4 R/5 and later).

- Installation of the WEBDEV PHP site directly on your IBM System i (with Zend Core for i5/OS).

- A front-end Windows or Linux server, with a WEBDEV application server.





