
## Assisted universal replication: specific features
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Specific features of this version
<a name="specific_features_this_version_ELTTEXTE000128"></a>
In this version, the specific features of the assisted universal replication are as follows:

- **Managing the automatic data modification.**
	

	- Replication between HFSQL databases: Automatic data modification management is only available for universal replication of HFSQL databases. 
			To enable automatic data modification during replication, you must specify it in [ReplicEdit](../ReplicEdit/3526501.md): in the [replication description](../ReplicEdit/3526502.md), "Advanced" tab, **""**. 
			**Caution**: 

		- For existing replications, it is necessary to recreate a replication (as well as the subscribers) to implement this mechanism.

		- This mechanism does not work if a unique key is added or deleted. In this case, the automatic modification must be performed in the same way as for databases in different formats.   




- Replication between databases in different formats:  No automatic mechanism is available for the automatic data modification. You must:

	- synchronize as many subscribers as possible before the automatic data modification.

	- perform the automatic data modification on the master files.

	- perform the automatic data modification on the subscriber files.

	- synchronize the subscribers.

- **Managing the replication for the files of user groupware.**
	The files of the User Groupware are not automatically managed by the assisted universal replication. A copy of the files of the user groupware must be managed "manually" on the local computer.

- **Direct replication**
	The .WER file must be necessarily deployed beside the executable file (even for a programmed replication). The.WER file cannot be included in a WINDEV library (.WDL file).

- **Assisted universal replication and WINDEV Mobile**
	ReplicSynchro Mobile version is not supplied in this version. An assisted universal replication must be performed by using the WLanguage programming functions. For more details, see [Assisted Universal Replication through programming](../WDLang4/9000047.md).

- **Assisted universal replication and WEBDEV**
	With WEBDEV, an assisted universal replication must be performed by using the WLanguage programming functions. For more details, see [Assisted Universal Replication through programming](../WDLang4/9000047.md).

- **Parameters for accessing the master files**
	**ReplicAdmin** cannot be used to modify the access parameters to the master files: You must perform a setup with the setup creation wizard and update the application.
	Therefore, a replication cannot be deployed directly on a computer without using an application.

- **Volume of data**
	**Caution**: the universal replication may encounter problems when processing large volumes of data. The main limiting factor is the size of the key used to identify the records. For example, an integer key (or automatic identifier) will allow you to replicate more records than a string key.
	Furthermore, we recommend that you replicate a sub-set of records by using the filtering features of the assisted replication. Indeed, it is the volume of replicated data and not the total volume of data that must be taken into account.







