


## WDTestSite: Overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>


### WDTestSite
<a name="wdtestsite_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

WDTestSite is used to run different tests on a WEBDEV site.

The different tests are as follows:

- Load test: 
	The stress test consists in simulating the connection of several Web users to a WEBDEV site. Each Web user runs a set of operations (scenario) simultaneously.

- Regression test:
	The regression test consists in checking the operating mode of a WEBDEV site between two updates. The regression test consists in checking whether a scenario performed with an earlier site version still operates properly once the site was updated.

- Test of a site in multi-user mode: 
	The test of a site in multi-user mode is used to check whether concurrent accesses to the data files are managed properly. This test consists in simulating the simultaneous connection of several Web users to a WEBDEV site. Each Web user runs a set of operations (scenario) simultaneously.

- Comparison of different servers:
	WDTestSite is used to compare the speed of different servers. To do so, run the same scenario on different servers and compare the execution time of this scenario.

- Optimizing the processes created in WLanguage:
	WDTestSite is used to compare the execution time of a scenario before and after the WLanguage code was optimized.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Starting WDTestSite
<a name="starting_wdtestsite_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>
To start WDTestSite:

- on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDTestSite" (from WEBDEV).

- run "WDTestSite.EXE" directly.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTTEXTE000211"></a>
WDTestSite cannot be redistributed.

However, to run tests in multi-user mode, WDTestSite can be installed on several computers.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Using WDTestSite
<a name="using_wdtestsite_ELTTEXTE000235"></a>


### Principle
<a name="principle_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

WDTestSite is used to:

- [create a scenario](../WDTestSite/3538004.md). This scenario contains a set of actions that must be performed on a WEBDEV site.

- [run the test of a scenario directly](../WDTestSite/3538004.md).

- [start successively several executions of the same scenario from the same computer or from different computers](../WDTestSite/3538004.md).
	The scenario is run on the server.

- [run the same scenario (simultaneous users) from the same computer or from different computers](../WDTestSite/3538001.md).
	The scenario is run on the server.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Installing WDTestSite on different computers
<a name="installing_wdtestsite_different_computers_ELTTEXTE000259"></a>
To run stress tests on a server or to test the server rapidity, we recommend that you use different computers to run the execution of a scenario. The scenario is always run on the same Web server.

The following files must be copied to each test computer:

- the executable file: WDTestSite.exe

- the different libraries: httputil.dll, wd280hf.dll, wd280mat.dll, wd280obj.dll, wd280pnt.dll, wd280std.dll and wd280vm.dll.

- the help file for WDTestSite: WDTestSite.pdf

- the scenario (".WCN" file): this file must be copied to a "Scenario" subdirectory of the setup directory of WDTestSite.exe. 




When these files are copied to the test computers, simply run the scenario or the load test on each of the test computers.


