
## Natif Informix Connector for WINDEV and WEBDEV
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>
WINDEV and WEBDEV propose an optional Native Connector to Informix (also called Native Access to Informix). This Native Connector allows you to access an Informix database from a WLanguage program without using any external driver.

Benefits of using Native Informix Connector:

- HReadxxx functions (HReadNext, HModify, etc.) can be used on Informix databases. This means that an Informix database and an HFSQL database can be handled with the same commands. Porting an existing application to external databases is simplified. 

- The RAD allows you to generate the code with the Hxxx functions (HReadNext, ...) or with the SQLxxx functions. 

- Direct access to an Informix database with no intermediate layer: MDAC, OLE DB and ODBC are useless. 

- WDMAP (the data viewer) can be used on your Informix databases (via the 32-bit client layer). 

- The HFSQL Control Center can be used on your Informix databases (CC28HF.exe for the 32-bit client layers and CC28HF64.exe for the 64-bit client layers). This allows you to perform queries directly and to view the Informix data. 

- The setup is straightforward: No OLE DB or ODBC layer required on the user computer. 

- All versions of Informix databases are supported 

- etc.


The use of this Native Connector is highly recommended when developing Client/Server applications (that access Informix databases) with WINDEV or WEBDEV. Feel free to contact us for any additional information.

**Caution**: 

- This version of the Native Informix Connector works with WINDEV and WEBDEV 28.

- This version of the Native Informix Connector does not operate with the following products: Informix Standard Edition (SE), Informix OnLine and Informix C-ISAM. 








<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTTEXTE000190"></a>


### Conditions for using Native Informix Connector
<a name="conditions_for_using_native_informix_connector_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

**In 32-bit**: 

- Informix client layer 3.34.0.11061 (version checked by our services) must be installed.

- The **ICLIT09B.DLL** DLL (version checked by our services) must be accessible:

	- from the development computer.

	- from the deployment computer.







**In 64-bit**: 

- Informix client layer 4.10.00.15364 (version tested by our services) installed.

- The **ICLIT09B.DLL** DLL (version checked by our services) must be accessible:

	- from the development computer.

	- from the deployment computer.







The **ICLIT09B.DLL** DLL is sought by default. If this DLL is not available:

1. Create a "WDIFMX.INI" file in the Windows directory (C:\\WINDOWS for example).

2. Add the following information into the "WDIFMX.INI" file:





```txt
[CLIENT]
DRIVER=<DLL name>
```


where &lt;DLL name&gt; corresponds to the full path of the Informix DLL. This DLL can also correspond to the ODBC driver used to access Informix.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### The necessary files
<a name="the_necessary_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

The following files are required to use Native Informix Connector:

- ***ICLIT09B.DLL*** (version checked by our services): This DLL is installed by the client layer of Informix. See the license agreement of Informix for more details about the distribution conditions of this DLL.

- ***wd280ifmx.dll***: Required for the Native Connector to an Informix database in 32-bit mode. This file is supplied with Native Connector for Informix.

- ***wd280ifmx64.dll***: Required for the Native Connector to an Informix database in 64-bit mode. This file is supplied with Native Connector for Informix.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000220"></a>


### Using Native Informix Connector in your WINDEV applications and WEBDEV sites
<a name="using_native_informix_connector_your_windev_applications_and_webdev_sites_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

To use Informix natively, you must program:

- with the "SQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with SQL functions](../WDInformix/5511006.md)).

- with the "HFSQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with HFSQL functions](../WDInformix/5511001.md)).




**Remarks**: 

- For more details, see [the specific features regarding the use of Native Informix Connector](../WDInformix/5511004.md).

- The "Automatically create the data files when they are opened" option ("Files" tab in the project description) is taken into account by the Native Informix Connector. 





