


## WDINT overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000186"></a>
**WDINT is an optional tool of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. If you do not own WDINT, contact PC SOFT Sales Department, your retailer or visit our website  www.WINDEV.com.**

WDINT is used to extract:

- the messages displayed by the different WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV frameworks (".DLL" files). These frameworks are respectively used by a WINDEV application, a WINDEV Mobile application or a WEBDEV site.
	These messages can be displayed when running a project developed with WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV. Some examples:

	- "Division by 0"

	- "The BtnOk element is unknown"

	- "No analysis is opened and the CITY file is not described", ...




- the different options of Automatic Application Features (AAF)

- the different windows used for the Automatic Application Features (AAF).

- the options in the advanced control ribbon (Image Editor, Word Processing, Spreadsheet controls, etc.).




WDINT generates an extraction file (".wdmsg" file) for each language supported by a project.

**This file is identical for WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile.**

This extraction file can be translated using [WDTRAD](../WDTrad/3518010.md), a tool supplied with WDINT. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to translate the messages (framework or AAFs) used by your project?
<a name="how_translate_the_messages_framework_aafs_used_your_project_ELTTEXTE000210"></a>
To translate the messages (framework, AAFs, etc.) used by your project:

1. Start WDINT by using one of the following methods:

	- select "Programs .. WINDEV - WDINT" from the "Start" menu (if WINDEV is installed on the computer).

	- select "Programs .. WINDEV Mobile - WDINT" from the "Start" menu (if WINDEV Mobile is installed on the computer).

	- select "Programs .. WEBDEV - WDINT" from the "Start" menu (if WEBDEV is installed on the computer).

	- in the product you are using, go to the "Project" tab, "Translate" group, expand "Translate" and select "WDInt - Framework translation". 

	- double-click "WDINT.EXE" (located in the setup directory of WDINT). In this case, you must specify the language used by WDINT.




2. Specify (if necessary) the product used to develop the project (WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile).

3. [Create a translation file](../WDInt/3515006.md).

4. Translate the framework messages with [WDTRAD](../WDTrad/3518010.md).
	If an external company does the translation, [WDTRAD](../WDTrad/3518010.md) and the wdmsg extraction file can be supplied to this company.

5. [Reintegrate the translated messages into your project](../WDInt/3515007.md).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTTEXTE000234"></a>


- The "Developer" messages (displayed when the project is developed) are not translated.

- The different frameworks of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile, WEBDEV, AAFs and advanced controls contain over 10000 messages. Some of these messages do not have to be translated. Untranslated messages will be displayed either in French, English or Spanish depending on the version of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV used.

- The messages extracted by WDINT are identified by their type in WDTRAD. This allows you to sort the resources according to their type: AAF, user resources, system resources. 

- By default, the messages found in the different frameworks of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV will be displayed in French if the project is developed with a French version of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV.

	- A French.wdmsg file, an English.wdm file and a Spanish.wdm file are provided with the French version of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV (in the "Personal" subdirectory of the product). These files is updated for each new product update with the new messages. 

	- An English.wdmsg file, a French.wdm file and a Spanish.wdm file are provided with the international version of WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV (in the "Personal" subdirectory of the product). This file is updated for each new product update with the new messages. 






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Content of the setup package
<a name="content_the_setup_package_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

WDINT is available: 

- with WDMSG. In this case, a link to download the WDMSG setup package has been provided to you by email or in your package. 

- separately. In this case, a link to download the WDINT setup package has been provided to you by email or in your package. 




The WDINT setup package 28 allows you to install the following elements:

- WDINT 28: extraction tools for WINDEV 28, WEBDEV 28 and WINDEV Mobile 28 projects.

- [WDTRAD 28](../WDTrad/3518010.md): tool for translating the projects developed in WINDEV 28, WEBDEV 28 and WINDEV Mobile 28.

- [WDDIXIO 28](../WDDixio/3514003.md): tool for translating the projects developed in WINDEV 28, WEBDEV 28 and WINDEV Mobile 28.





