


## Frequently asked questions about Automatic Update
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>


### Here are the most frequently asked questions about the update search mechanism: 
<a name="here_are_the_most_frequently_asked_questions_about_the_update_search_mechanism_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

- [Which updates do I have to download?](#NOTE2_1)

- [Which information is sent to PC SOFT during the process for detecting and installing the updates?](#NOTE2_2)

- [Which languages are taken into account?](#NOTE2_3)

- [How many times do I need to search for updates to get the most recent version of my product?](#NOTE2_4)

- [I don't want to install updates of my products from the Web. Can I download the updates on my computer and install them myself?](#NOTE2_5)

- [I am using a firewall. Can I search for updates?](#NOTE2_6)

- [I am using a proxy. Can I search for updates?](#NOTE2_7)

- [How can I uninstall the updates?](#NOTE2_8)




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


### Which updates do I have to download? 
<a name="which_updates_have_download_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

The updates detected by the "Automatic Update" application correspond to the PC SOFT products you use. The proposed updates allow you to quickly take advantage of the latest features available for your products.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### What details does PC SOFT collect when checking for and and installing the updates? 
<a name="what_details_does_soft_collect_when_checking_for_and_and_installing_the_updates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

PC SOFT does not collect any personal information or any product details (name, serial number, etc.) when checking for and installing updates. Only the IP address of your computer is known.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Which languages are taken into account? 
<a name="which_languages_are_taken_into_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

Automatic Update is available in different languages. The updates proposed will depend on the language of the product installed on your computer (International or French version).

This option is not available in this version.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### How many times do I need to search for updates to get the most recent version of my product? 
<a name="how_many_times_need_search_for_updates_get_the_most_recent_version_product_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

The updates that can be used with the current version of your product are proposed each time Automatic Update is run.

After each update, it is advisable to re-run the update search to see if new updates are available..
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### I don't want to install updates of my products from the Web. Can I download the updates on my computer and install them myself? 
<a name="dont_want_install_updates_products_from_the_web_can_download_the_updates_computer_and_install_them_myself_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

Yes, the updates can be downloaded and installed locally on your computer. All updates are available on the site of [PC SOFT, Download center](https://www.windev.com/ts/download/index.html).
<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### I am using a firewall. Can I search for updates? 
<a name="using_firewall_can_search_for_updates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

If you are using a firewall that requests authorization for each connection, it is necessary to answer "Yes" so that the update check can work properly.

You will not be able to use the editor update mechanism if you are using a silent firewall.
<a name="NOTE2_7"></a>


### I am using a proxy. Can I search for updates? 
<a name="using_proxy_can_search_for_updates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000086"></a>

If you are using a proxy, you will be able to use the editor update mechanism. This mechanism uses the Internet Explorer proxy settings.
<a name="NOTE2_8"></a>


### How do I uninstall the updates? 
<a name="how_uninstall_the_updates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000093"></a>

It is not possible to delete the updates of the different PC SOFT products. To remove the installed updates, you must uninstall the product from your computer and then reinstall it.


