


## SourceToScreen (Function)

***In french: SourceVersEcran***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Automatically updates the controls in a window or page with:

- the values of the bound items in the current record (loaded in memory) of the HFSL data file described in the data model editor. 

- the values of the bound WLanguage variables. 


This operation is performed regardless of the state of the controls (grayed, inactive or invisible).

**Remarks**: 

- **SourceToScreen** does not read records on the data file. The value of the record loaded in memory is used to update the controls. Therefore, a record must be loaded in memory previously: 

	- [HRead](../WDLang4/3044047.md), [HReadSeek](../WDLang4/3044050.md), [HReadFirst](../WDLang4/3044051.md), etc. 

	- [LooperDisplay](../WDLang2/3083001.md) for a Looper control, etc.










<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Searches for customer in the data file
HReadSeekFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME, "PAUL")
IF HFound() = True THEN
	// Displays the client found in the current window
	SourceToScreen()
END

// Read the record and
// transfer items to the controls in WIN_Customer
HReadFirst(CUSTOMER, NAME)
SourceToScreen (WIN_Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`SourceToScreen([<Window> [, <Source>]])`
---

**`<Window>: (Window name)`**

Name of the window or page containing the controls to be updated.

Summary: Called when a control gains focus.


**`<Source>: (Optional character string)`**

Name (in quotation marks) of the source the controls to be updated are bound to. This source can be:

- The name of a data file: only the controls bound to the items of the data file are taken into account.

- The name of a WLanguage variable: only the controls bound to the WLanguage variable are taken into account.
	Remarks: 

	- If the name of the variable is enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the specified variable. 

	- If the name of the variable is not enclosed in quotes, the control will be bound to the variable data (e.g., a variable containing the name of another variable).





If this name is not specified, all the window controls bound to an item of a data file described in the data model editor or to a WLanguage variable will be taken into account.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file
<a name="binding_between_control_and_wlanguage_variable_between_control_and_item_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000129"></a>

The binding between a control and a WLanguage variable or between a control and an item of a data file can be determined:

- In the editor, in the control description window ("Binding" tab).

- Programmatically, with the [DataBinding](../Proprietes/2510060.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Binding to an item: types of bindings
<a name="binding_item_types_bindings_ELTPARAGRAPHE000144"></a>

There are two types of bindings between a control and an item

- *direct binding*: In this case, **SourceToScreen** transfers the value of the items from the record loaded in memory to the bound control, without reading any values.

- *binding by reading the records in the associated data file*. 



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000158"></a>

- **Auto-filled Combo Box control bound to an HFSQL data file**: **SourceToScreen** must not be in the window "Global declarations" event. The function must be in the "Initialization" event of the window.

- Space characters in HFSQL items are kept.

- **SourceToScreen** updates Image controls with the value of the bound image memo items.

- **SourceToScreen** supports the NULL value. If the item content is NULL, an empty string will be displayed in the bound Edit control. To change this display mode, use [ControlError](../WDLang1/3025036.md).

- **SourceToScreen** is not available on views. The values of the items must be assigned to each control.

- **Binding with "Secure Password" items**:

	- In an Edit control bound to a Password item, "\*\*\*\*\*" characters are displayed. If the Edit control is of type "Password", dots are displayed instead. 

	- The value of the "Password" item cannot be read again until the user changes the password value.

	- The value of the "Password" item can still be compared to a string (e.g., "" or "1234").







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
