


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.ConnectionQuality (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.QualitéConnexion***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the quality level of connection: the higher the level is, the faster the connection will be.  



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Checks the quality of connection
// Connection1 is a connection with compression
// Connection2 is a connection without compression
Connection1 is Connection
Connection2 is Connection

Result1 is int = Connection1.ConnectionQuality()
Result2 is int = Connection2.ConnectionQuality()
IF Result1 > Result2 THEN
	Trace("The best connection is Connection1")
ELSE
	Trace("The best connection is Connection2")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Connection>.ConnectionQuality()`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Quality level of connection. The higher the level is, the faster the connection will be.

**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection to test.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### How to use &lt;Connection variable&gt;.ConnectionQuality?
<a name="how_use_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000206"></a>

**&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ConnectionQuality** can be used with compressed frames. 

**When should I compress network frames?**
The choice must be based on 3 parameters: 

- the speed of the network used, 

- the CPU performance of the client computers

- the type of the transmitted data. 




The importance of each parameter depends on the two other ones so no standard formula is available. **However, here are some tips to help you choose**:

- If the speed of the network used is greater than 10 Mbits/second, there is no need to compress the frames.

- If the network used (GRPS, EDGE or 3G type) is invoiced according to the amount of transmitted data, we advise you to compress the frames in order to reduce the cost. 

- If an important amount of data (binary memo) is transmitted (images, video, zip sound, etc.), the compression of frames will be useless. 

- In all the other cases:

	- on client computers equipped with high-performance processors and if text or text memo data is used by your application, it may be interesting to compress the frames. 

	- on client computers equipped with low-performance processors, it may be very interesting to compress the frames if the transfer rate is quite slow.


 It may be interesting to perform comparative measurements by using the performance analyzer.




**&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ConnectionQuality** can be used to compare the performance of a compressed and an uncompressed connection.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Quality level of connection
<a name="quality_level_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000243"></a>

The quality level of the connection depends on several aspects, for example:

- The CPU workload of the client and server.

- The use of network resources by other programs.

- The workload on the network devices (switch, router, etc.).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
