
## HFSQL Client/Server: Principle for saving the databases
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>
Like for any database, backups of your HFSQL Client/Server databases must be performed on a regular basis. 

This backup can be performed while ***the database is being used***. In this case, the backup is a "hot" backup. Accesses can be in progress (read, write, execution of queries, etc.). The backup will correspond to the status of the database when the backup starts.

Several types of backups are available: 

- full backup with or without differential backup.

- immediate or scheduled backup. 




A backup can be triggered:

- in the HFSQL Control Center.

- through programming.


For more details, see [How to perform a backup?](../WDLang4/1000017308.md). 

A backup can be restored at any time. For more details, see [How to restore a backup?](../WDLang4/1000017309.md). 





<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## The different types of backups
<a name="the_different_types_backups_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>


### Full backup and differential backup
<a name="full_backup_and_differential_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000051"></a>

**A full backup** consists in entirely saving the data found on a server, in a database, in a file, ... This type of backup requires a lot of space.  

You can also perform **differential backups**. The differential backup is used to save the file sections modified since the previous full backup. Therefore, the size of backups is considerably reduced and the speed of backups is increased. 

The common method consists in performing full backups at fixed dates and in performing differential backups between these fixed dates. The frequencies depend on the rate of data evolution and on the importance of data. A correct frequency consists in performing a full monthly backup and a different backup every night. 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Immediate backups and scheduled backups
<a name="immediate_backups_and_scheduled_backups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

The **immediate** backups are used to perform a backup at a given time. Only a full backup can be performed immediately. 

The **scheduled** backups are used to implement an automatic backup policy by defining the frequency of backups. The full backups and the differential backups can be scheduled.  

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>




## Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTTEXTE000217"></a>




### Characteristics of the backup
<a name="characteristics_the_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

The backup performed will correspond to the status of the database at the beginning of backup.

During the backup, you are not allowed to:

- delete files and databases, 

- update the stored procedures.   



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>




### Notes
<a name="notes_ELTPARAGRAPHE000088"></a>

- A full backup can be performed immediately or it can be scheduled. 

- A differential backup can only be scheduled. 

- We advise you to perform the backups when the server load is light. Indeed, the backup is using the hard disk and it may slow down the server.

- If the backup is a scheduled backup and if the server is switched off when the backup must be performed, the backup will be performed at the next specified date, when the server is available.

- Performing a backup and restoring it under a different name allows you to easily duplicate a database. 



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>




### Windows rights required to perform backups
<a name="windows_rights_required_perform_backups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

The backup of an HFSQL Client/Server database is run by the process "manta.exe" (visible in the Windows service manager and named "Hyper File Server: ServerName").

By default, this service is run by the "local system account" of Windows, whose rights can be limited. 

If a backup fails with an error such as "Access denied" or "Unable to create the directory", the account used to run the service must be modified:

1. Open the Windows service manager. 

2. Right-click "Hyper File Server : ServerName" and select "Properties". 

3. In the "Connection" pane, replace the "Local system account" by a user who has the rights to access the backup location.





