
## Docker image of the HFSQL server
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000168"></a>
From version 22, a Docker container with the HFSQL server is available in Docker Hub:
[https://hub.docker.com/r/windev/hfsql](https://hub.docker.com/r/windev/hfsql)


Installing an HFSQL server is really simple: 1 line to type or script!

Remark: Only the 64-bit version is available. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000192"></a>


### Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000025"></a>

The Linux distribution used does not matter. However, to use the Docker container that contains the HFSQL server, it is necessary to be familiar with Docker and, in particular:

- know how to install a new container from the Docker image of the HFSQL server,

- manage at least one volume required for data persistence,

- manage network configuration inside Docker.





### Running the image (creation of the container)
<a name="running_the_image_creation_the_container_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

- The name of the preset image is: 
	
	```txt
	"windev/hfsql:<FR/US><Version>"
	```


- To persist data (e.g. if the image changes), you must: 

	- Use a volume. The command to create a volume: 
			
		```txt
		"docker volume create <VolumeName>"
		```


	- Mount the volume into the container on 
			
		```txt
		"/var/lib/hfsql"
		```





- Example of command line: 
	
	```txt
	sudo docker run -d
	--restart unless-stopped
	--name HFSQL_DOCKER
	--volume <NomVolume>:/var/lib/hfsql
	--publish 4923:4900
	windev/hfsql:US230053b
	```
Here are the parameters of the command above: 

	- "name": indicates the name of the container. 

	- "volume": indicates the "binding" between the volume and the directory defined in the container. In the HFSQL server configuration, the database path will be seen as "var/lib/hfsql". 

	- "publish": indicates the container access port (4923 in this example) and the redirection to the port inside the container (4900: HFSQL standard port).
			In this example, the server will be accessible on port 4923 of the docker server.

	- the name of the docker package and the HFSQL version (US230053b" in this example).










### Notes (important)
<a name="notes_important_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

- When the container is created, if there are no databases, you can define environment variables, for example, via the syntax: 
	
	```txt
	-e HFSQL_RANDOM_PASSWORD=yes
	```

	You can use one of the following three variables (or nothing for the default "admin" mode): 

	- HFSQL_PASSWORD: Password of the initial account.

	- HFSQL_PASSWORD_FILE: Path of the file that contains the password of the initial account.

	- HFSQL_RANDOM_PASSWORD: The password for the initial account is generated randomly
			It is displayed on the standard output and can be found in the logs with the command
		```txt
		docker logs HFSQL_DOCKER
		```



 You can also use the following variable (optional): HFSQL_USER: Name of the account (admin by default.)

- Reminder of basic Docker commands:

	- Stop a container: 
			
		```txt
		"docker stop <ID>"
		```


	- Restart a container: 
			
		```txt
		"docker start <ID>"
		```











### Server to Server replication
<a name="server_server_replication_ELTPARAGRAPHE000087"></a>

"Server to Server" replication is not possible with the default HFSQL Docker image.
To perform this type of replication, a derived image must be made adding the port used for replication.
The new Docker image can be for example:

```txt
FROM windev/hfsql:26.0.062
EXPOSE 4996
```



### Example of bidirectional replication between two HFSQL docker containers
<a name="example_bidirectional_replication_between_two_hfsql_docker_containers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

To set up bidirectional replication between two HFSQL Docker containers running on the same machine: 

1. Create a Dockerfile with this content: 
	
	```txt
	FROM windev/hfsql:FR250083
		EXPOSE 4996
		EXPOSE 4997
	```


2. Create the Docker image with this command line (include the full stop):
	
	```txt
	sudo docker build --force-rm -t hfsql:replication .
	```


3. Create a volume for the first server: 
	
	```txt
	sudo docker volume create vol_hfsql_4901
	```


4. Install and run the first server:
	
	```txt
	sudo docker run -dit --restart unless-stopped --name HFSQL_4901 
	--volume vol_hfsql_4901:/var/lib/hfsql 
	--publish 4923:4900 
	--publish 4996:4996 hfsql:replication
	```


5. Create a volume for the second server: 
	
	```txt
	sudo docker volume create vol_hfsql_4902
	```


6. Install and run the second server: 
	
	```txt
	sudo docker run -dit --restart unless-stopped --name HFSQL_4902 
	--volume vol_hfsql_4902:/var/lib/hfsql --publish 4902:4900 
	--publish 4997:4997 hfsql:replication
	```





The rest of the configuration can be defined in the HFSQL Control Center (standard method to create a bidirectional replication between two servers). 


