
## HSuggestKeyStart (Function)

***In french: HSuggèreCléDébut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Starts collecting information on executed queries to propose optimization keys. 

From this function, the queries executed on the connection passed as a parameter are analyzed to propose a set of keys to be added to your data files and improve the performance of your queries.

To obtain the result of the analysis, [HSuggestKeyEnd](../WDLang4/1000025906.md) must be executed. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
HSuggestKeyStart(MyConnection)
// Execute queries on MyConnection 
// with HExecuteSQLQuery and HExecuteQuery
...
// Get suggestions
sSuggestedKeys is string = RTFToText(HSuggestKeyEnd(MyConnection))
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`HSuggestKeyStart(<Connection>)`
---

**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to the HFSQL server containing the queries to be analyzed. This connection corresponds to:

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The result obtained with [HSuggestKeyEnd](../WDLang4/1000025906.md) will take into account the 10 slowest queries. It is recommended to execute the same query multiple times with different parameters to obtain more useful results.

- To analyze a query with a parameter, you must provide the value of the parameter when the query is executed. 
	If no value is given for the query parameter(s), the query condition will not be taken into account. In that case, no keys will be suggested.

- Keys are suggested according to the data contained in the data file. If a data file contains no data, no key will be suggested.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
