


## &lt;Source&gt;.ToFile (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.VersFichier***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Copies a data source (file, query, view, ...) to a physical HFSQL data file with the same description. This data file is neither encrypted nor password protected.  

This function is used to save an history for example: a query selects all the records found for year 2019, the result is transferred to a data file and a new query deletes all the records found for year 2019.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF MyView.ToFile("C:\temp\Test.fic") = True THEN
	Info("Data transferred into a data file")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.ToFile(<Destination file>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise (the destination file already exists for example).




**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Logical name of the data source to copy (data file, view, query, ...).

**`<Destination file>: (Character string)`**

Full name of the physical data file into which the records found in the source must be copied. This data file and the data source will have the same description. To access this data file, use [&lt;Source&gt;.DeclareExternal](../WDLang4/1000024214.md) for example.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Filtered source
<a name="filtered_source_ELTPARAGRAPHE000227"></a>

Only the records corresponding to the filter will be copied if a filter is defined and enabled on the data source.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Data source: View or query
<a name="data_source_view_query_ELTPARAGRAPHE000237"></a>

If the data source is a view or a query, all the items will be keys of the created data file except for:

- Memo items.

- items whose size exceeds 260 characters and not key in the source file of the view or query.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
