


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.ActivateServerTrigger (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.ActiveTriggerServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Re-enables a server trigger previously disabled by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.DeactivateServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000022654.md).

**Remark**: The functions for handling the server triggers are advanced functions. The server triggers can be created directly in the data model editor. For more details, see [Server triggers](../WDLang4/3044369.md).



<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Activating a server trigger on physical files associated with a connection

`<Result> = <Connection>.ActivateServerTrigger(<Trigger> [, <Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that corresponds to the connection to be used. 

**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to activate. This name was defined with [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.DescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000022653.md).

**`<Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Optional character string)`**

Physical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files associated with the connection ("CUSTOMER.FIC" for example). 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (","). 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), the trigger will be enabled on all the data files of the database associated to the connection.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
