


## &lt;Source&gt;.Security (Function)

***In french: &lt;Source&gt;.Sécurité***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the automatic security mechanism on one or more data files.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
Customer.Security(False) // Disables the protection mechanism
Customer.Security(True) // Enables the protection mechanism
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Source>.Security(<Security level>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Former security level (before running **&lt;Source&gt;.Security**).

**`<Source>: (Type corresponding to the specified source)`**

Name of the data file used.

**`<Security level>: (Integer or boolean)`**

Requested security level:

- 0 or <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (by default): the security mechanism is disabled. The speed of the write-to-file operations is maximum.

- 1 or <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>: The security mechanism is enabled: The speed of the write-to-file operations is slower than when using HSecurity(0) but the security is ensured when writing into the data files.

- 2: Maximum security mechanism: The speed of write-to-file operations is slower than when using HSecurity(1).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### &lt;Source&gt;.Security and [&lt;Source&gt;.Flush](../WDLang4/1000024981.md)
<a name="docparampagetitleshort_and_flushwdlang41000024981md_ELTPARAGRAPHE000235"></a>

**&lt;Source&gt;.Security** and [&lt;Source&gt;.Flush](../WDLang4/1000024981.md) can both be used to force a physical write operation on disk.

However:

- **&lt;Source&gt;.Security** forces the data file(s) to be written. This write operation is automatically performed by the HFSQL engine. The data files used are not closed during this write operation. The speed of the write-to-file operation is slower.

- [&lt;Source&gt;.Flush](../WDLang4/1000024981.md) is used to force a write operation into the data files handled during the call to this function. The data files used are closed then re-opened during this write operation. The speed of the write-to-file operation is not slowed down.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
