


## HManageServerUpdate  (Function)

***In french: HGèreMiseAJourServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to manage the automatic update of HFSQL Client/Server servers by specifying the check frequency regarding the availability of updates. If an update is available, the HFSQL server is automatically updated. 

Remark: Two rights are required to use this function: 

- The rights to manage the server. 

- The rights to stop the server. 


These rights correspond respectively to the *hRightsManageServer* and *hRightsStopServer* constants used in [HInfoServerRights](../WDLang4/3044322.md) and [HModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/3044328.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyConnection is Connection
MyScheduling is hScheduling

// Enables the server update according to a specific scheduling
HManageServerUpdate(MyConnection, MyScheduling)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`(<Former Scheduling>, <Former URL>) = HManageServerUpdate(<Connection> [, <Scheduling> [, <URL>]])`
---

**`<Former Scheduling>: (hScheduling variable)`**

[hScheduling](../WDLang4/1000018853.md) variable containing the characteristics of the previous scheduling. 

**`<Former URL>: (Character string)`**

Former URL for downloading the server update. 

**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to a database. This connection corresponds to:

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Scheduling>: (Optional hScheduling variable)`**

Name of the [hScheduling](../WDLang4/1000018853.md) variable corresponding to the options for scheduling the server update. 

**`<URL>: (Optional character string)`**



- URL to the custom update server. For more details, see [Custom update server](#NOTE0_1). 

- Empty string (default) to use the official update server of PC SOFT. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Default PC SOFT update server
<a name="default_soft_update_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000102"></a>

Fore each update, PC SOFT proposes packs allowing you to automatically update the HFSQL server in production (for the version currently used). 

These packs have been thoroughly checked by our services.  
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Custom update server
<a name="custom_update_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

You can use a custom update server for the HFSQL server. This allows you to control the HFSQL server updates of the users. You can for example validate the use of a new version before releasing it. 

To create a custom update server for HFSQL servers, you must: 

1. Install a Web server (IIS or Apache) on the selected computer. 

2. Create the following MIME types on the Web server if they do not exist:

	- .json -> application/json

	- .sign -> application/byte-stream

	- .zip  -> application/x-compress




3. Create a directory at the root of the Web server. This directory will contain the update packs. Example: C:\\inetpub\\wwwroot\\hfsql_packs
	This directory must contain: 

	- A json file containing the names of the packs to be used according to the versions (see below). The name of this file must be "hfsql_updateinfo.json".

	- The packs corresponding to the updates (packs in zip format with ".zip" extension).

	- The signature files corresponding to the packs (".sign" extension).


 These packs and their signatures are available from the following address: [http://package.windev.com/hfsql/](http://package.windev.com/hfsql/). 




For example: 

- Web server for updates: srvupd

- UNC directory containing the updates: \\\\srvupd\\hfsql_packs\\

- URL for updates: http://srvupd/hfsql_packs/




Example of Json file: 


```txt
{
	"pack": [
		{
			"major_version": 22,
			"language"     : "F",
			"version"      : "220099",
			"min_version"  : "220036",

			"pack": [
				{
					"platform": "win32",
					"data"     : "srv_hfsql_win32_90F220099z"
				},
				{
					"platform": "win64",
					"data"     : "srv_hfsql_win64_90F220099z"
				},
				{
					"platform": "linux32",
					"data"     : "srv_hfsql_linux32_90F220099z"
				},
				{
					"platform": "linux64",
					"data"     : "srv_hfsql_linux64_90F220099z"
				}
			]
		}
	]
}
```
where: 

- **major_version**: corresponds to the major version of the pack (22, 23, ...). Only the HFSQL servers corresponding to this version will be updated. 

- **language**: corresponds to the server language (F for French, A for English, ...). 

- **version**: corresponds to the version of the HFSQL server found in the pack. 

- **min_version**: corresponds to the minimum version from which the pack can be applied. 

- **pack**: used to give the characteristics of the packs. 

- **platform**: platform corresponding to the pack: 

	- win32: 32-bit Windows

	- win64: 64-bit Windows

	- linux32: 32-bit Linux

	- linux64: 64-bit Linux




- **data**: corresponds to the name of the pack (without extension). 




Remark: A single pack may be referenced according to the platform used by the HFSQL servers. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
