
## MemcachedCAS (Function)

***In french: MemcachedCAS***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Modifies the value of a key if this one was not modified.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MemcachedCAS(memConnection, "key", "value")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = MemcachedCAS(<Connection> , <Key> , <Value> , <Cas> [, <Expiration> [, <Additional value>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Connection>: (memcachedConnection variable)`**

Name of the [memcachedConnection](../WDLang4/1000023339.md) variable that corresponds to the connection to Memcached. 

**`<Key>: (Character string)`**

Key to modify. 

**`<Value>: (Character string or Buffer)`**

Value to store. 

**`<Cas>: (Integer)`**

Value of previous version. 

**`<Expiration>: (Integer or optional duration)`**

Duration during which the key is stored in the cache. This duration is expressed in seconds. This duration can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of seconds,

- a Duration variable. 

- the direct indication of duration ('10s' for example). 


This duration is set to 0 by default. In this case, the duration is unlimited: if there is not enough memory, the oldest keys are deleted.

**`<Additional value>: (Optional integer)`**

Used to store an additional value associated with the Key/Value couple. This parameter can be used to describe the key or the value for example.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
To use this function, the Memcached server must support CAS (**SupportCAS** property of the [memcachedConnection](../WDLang4/1000023339.md) variable set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>). CAS (Check And Set) is used to perform a data modification only if this data was not modified since it was last read.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280big.dll
