
## HClusterDeleteNode (Function)

***In french: HClusterSupprimeNoeud***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Disables a node in a HFSQL cluster.

Notes: 

- **HClusterDeleteNode** is automatically called by the HFSQL Control Center. It is reserved for an advanced use.

- **HClusterDeleteNode** does not uninstall the HFSQL server or modify the DNS records.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Disables the host3 node in the cluster whose coordinator is found on
// the clustermanager.mydomain.com computer
HClusterDeleteNode("clustermanager.mydomain.com", "secret", "host3.mydomain.com")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = HClusterDeleteNode(<Coordinator> , <Password> , <Node>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the addition was successful,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Coordinator>: (Character string)`**

DNS name of computer where the cluster coordinator is installed.

**`<Password>: (Character string)`**

Password used to connect to the coordinator. This password was given when [installing the cluster](../WDLang4/1000019031.md).

**`<Node>: (Character string)`**

DNS name of the node to disable.








## Remarks


### Operating mode of the nodes in a cluster
<a name="operating_mode_the_nodes_cluster_ELTPARAGRAPHE000182"></a>

The address of the cluster coordinator is written into the configuration file of each one of the nodes when they are installed. Therefore, when starting the HFSQL Server service, the node is automatically connected to the cluster.

Then, [HClusterAddNode](../WDLang4/1000019061.md) and [HClusterDeleteNode](../WDLang4/1000019062.md) can be used to include or exclude a node to/from the list of active cluster nodes.

When a node is enabled by [HClusterAddNode](../WDLang4/1000019061.md), this node synchronizes its databases with the ones of the other nodes and it processes the connection requests from the clients.

When a node is disabled by [HClusterDeleteNode](../WDLang4/1000019062.md), this node stops synchronizing its databases and it does no longer accept any connection from the client applications.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
