
## Restoring an HFSQL Client/Server database
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
A backup of an HFSQL Client/Server database can be restored at any time: 

- if the backup performed is a full backup, all you have to do is restore this backup. 

- if the backup performed is a differential backup, all you have to do is restore the full backup and the associated differential backup. 




**Reminder**: The differential backup contains all the modifications performed since the previous full backup. 



The restore operation can be triggered:

- [in the HFSQL Control Center](#NOTE2).

- [through programming](#NOTE3).




**Caution**: Restoring a backup must be done with great care. 

- To perform this operation, you must have the rights to perform a backup (*hRightsBackup* constant) as well as the rights to lock the database (*hRightsLock* constant).

- To restore the entire server (or the __jnl and __trs databases), no other application must be connected to the server. The connection used must not be attached to a database.

- To restore databases only, there must be no connection on the database to restore.




**Remark**: Performing a backup and restoring it under a different name allows you to easily duplicate a database. 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Restoring a backup in the HFSQL Control Center
<a name="restoring_backup_the_hfsql_control_center_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
To restore a backup: 

1. Select the HFSQL Client/Server server in the tree structure on the left of the screen.

2. Select the "Backups" tab.

3. In the table of existing backups, select the backup to restore. 

4. Click the "Restore the backup" button. 

5. Validate the restore operation. 




**Remarks**: 

- You also have the ability to restore a backup found in a specific server directory. To do so, click the "Restore a backup from a directory" button. 

- If the backup is restored on a network disk (UNC or network drive letter), the necessary rights must have been granted to the user.
	In this case, to perform the restore operation: 

	- specify a UNC path for the backup location, 

	- modify the properties of the HFSQL Client/Server server via the Windows service manager by specifying a user who has the necessary rights in order to access the UNC location containing the backup.







<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Restoring a backup through programming
<a name="restoring_backup_through_programming_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>


### To restore a database backup
<a name="restore_database_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

Use the [HRestoreBackup](../WDLang4/1000017230.md) function.
<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Tip: Using a backup to copy and rename a database
<a name="tip_using_backup_copy_and_rename_database_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

To copy and rename a database, you have the ability to use the following tip:

1. Perform the backup the database.

2. Restore the database backup under a different name.




This operation can be performed with [HRestoreBackup](../WDLang4/1000017230.md).


