
## MemcachedDecrement (Function)

***In french: MemcachedDécrémente***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Decrements the value associated with a key. The key is created if it does not exist.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MemcachedDecrement(memConnection, "counter")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = MemcachedDecrement(<Connection> , <Key> [, <Decrement> [, <Initial value> [, <Expiration>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Previous key value. 

**`<Connection>: (memcachedConnection variable)`**

Name of the [memcachedConnection](../WDLang4/1000023339.md) variable that corresponds to the connection to Memcached.  

**`<Key>: (Character string)`**

Key to use.

**`<Decrement>: (Optional integer)`**

Decrement value (1 by default). 

**`<Initial value>: (Optional integer)`**

Initial key value if the sought key does not exist. Indeed, the sought key is automatically created if it does not exist and its value is set to &lt;Initial Value&gt;. 
CAUTION: to use this parameter, the Memcached server must use the binary communication protocol (**BinaryProtocol** property of the [memcachedConnection](../WDLang4/1000023339.md) variable set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>). 
An error is returned if this parameter is not specified. 

**`<Expiration>: (Integer or optional duration)`**

Duration during which the key is stored in the cache. This duration is expressed in seconds. This duration can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of seconds,

- a Duration variable. 

- the direct indication of duration ('10s' for example). 


This duration is set to 0 by default. In this case, the duration is unlimited: if there is not enough memory, the oldest keys are deleted.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280big.dll
