
## HClusterAddNode (Function)

***In french: HClusterAjouteNoeud***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables a node in an HFSQL cluster.

Notes: 

- **HClusterAddNode** is automatically called when [installing a new node](../WDLang4/1000019031.md). This function is reserved for an advanced use.

- **HClusterAddNode** does not install the HFSQL server and it does not add any DNS record to allow the access to the new node.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add the HFSQL server installed on host3.mycompany.com into the
// cluster managed by clustermanager.mycompany.com
HClusterAddNode("clustermanager.mycompany.com", "secret", "host3.mycompany.com")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = HClusterAddNode(<Coordinator> , <Password> , <New node>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the addition was successful,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Coordinator>: (Character string)`**

DNS name of computer where the cluster coordinator is installed.

**`<Password>: (Character string)`**

Password used to connect to the coordinator. This password was given when [installing the cluster](../WDLang4/1000019031.md).

**`<New node>: (Character string)`**

Name of the node to add. This parameter corresponds to the DNS name of the computer on which the new HFSQL server was installed.






## Remarks


### Operating mode of the nodes in a cluster
<a name="operating_mode_the_nodes_cluster_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The address of the cluster coordinator is written into the configuration file of each one of the nodes when they are installed. Therefore, when starting the HFSQL Server service, the node is automatically connected to the cluster.

Then, [HClusterAddNode](../WDLang4/1000019061.md) and [HClusterDeleteNode](../WDLang4/1000019062.md) can be used to include or exclude a node to/from the list of active cluster nodes.

When a node is enabled by [HClusterAddNode](../WDLang4/1000019061.md), this node synchronizes its databases with the ones of the other nodes and it processes the connection requests from the clients.

When a node is disabled by [HClusterDeleteNode](../WDLang4/1000019062.md), this node stops synchronizing its databases and it does no longer accept any connection from the client applications.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
