


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.RetrieveBackup (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.RécupèreSauvegarde***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Retrieves locally the content of a compressed backup (in ZIP format) performed on an HFSQL server.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Describe the connection
MyConnection is Connection

MyConnection.RetrieveBackup(BackupID, "C:\temp\Myfile.zip", PROGBAR_Progress)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Connection>.RetrieveBackup(<Backup> , <Destination file> [, <Progress Bar>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the backup was retrieved,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection with the backup to retrieve.

**`<Backup>: (Integer or character string)`**

Backup to retrieve. Can correspond to:

- **Backup identifier**. This identifier can correspond to the identifier of full backup or to the identifier of differential backup. 
	During an immediate backup, this identifier is returned by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.Backup](../WDLang4/1000022752.md). This identifier can also be returned by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.InfoBackup](../WDLang4/1000022679.md).
	In a scheduled backup, this identifier corresponds to the **Identifier** property of the [hBackupDescription](../WDLang4/1000017455.md) variable. 

- **Path and name of backup**. This name was specified during the backup. This name can also be returned by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.InfoBackup](../WDLang4/1000022679.md). If this name corresponds to a relative path, the backup will be sought in the "Backup" subdirectory of HFSQL server. To specify the directory of Manta service, simply use "%%EXE%%".




**`<Destination file>: (Character string)`**

Path and name of local file in which the backup will be retrieved.

In the case of a full backup, the destination file is a zip file (the ".zip" extension must be specified in the file name.

**`<Progress Bar>: (Optional control name, optional window name or optional integer)`**



- Name of the window where the progress bar will be displayed or name of the Progress Bar control.

- Handle of the window that displays the progress bar.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Rights required to retrieve a backup
<a name="rights_required_retrieve_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000243"></a>

To retrieve a backup, the user or the group must have the rights to perform backups (*hRightsBackup* constant). These rights apply to the servers and to the databases. For example, to perform a full server backup, you must have the rights to perform backups at server level. 

To find out whether these rights are granted to a user or to a group, use [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.InfoServerRights](../WDLang4/1000022668.md) or [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.InfoDatabaseRights](../WDLang4/1000022666.md).

To modify the rights granted to a user or to a group of users, use [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/1000022710.md) or [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ModifyDatabaseRights](../WDLang4/1000022707.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
