
## MemcachedModifyKeyGroup (Function)

***In french: MemcachedModifieGroupeClé***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Modifies a key/value couple in the Memcached cache on a group of servers.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MemcachedModifyKeyGroup(memConnection, "MyApp", "key", "value")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = MemcachedModifyKeyGroup(<Connection> , <Group> , <Key> , <Value> [, <Expiration> [, <Additional value>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred (if the key/value couple does not exist for example). To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Connection>: (memcachedConnection variable)`**

Name of the [memcachedConnection](../WDLang4/1000023339.md) variable that corresponds to the connection to Memcached.  

**`<Group>: (Character string)`**

Key section used to choose the server that will be used. 

**`<Key>: (Character string)`**

Rest of key to modify.

**`<Value>: (Character string or Buffer)`**

New value to store. 

**`<Expiration>: (Integer or optional Duration)`**

Duration during which the key is stored in the cache. This duration is expressed in seconds. This duration can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of seconds,

- a Duration variable. 

- the direct indication of duration ('10s' for example). 


This duration is set to 0 by default. In this case, the duration is unlimited: if there is not enough memory, the oldest keys are deleted.

**`<Additional value>: (Optional integer)`**

Used to store an additional value associated with the Key/Value couple. This parameter can be used to describe the key or the value for example.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280big.dll
