
## Replication of mobile data (Android or iOS)
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>
The Assisted Universal Replication is available in Android and iOS. 

This replication allows you to replicate data coming from different databases. 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTTEXTE000170"></a>


### Necessary conditions
<a name="necessary_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000023"></a>

- The analysis must be shared between the WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile application (Android or iOS). 

- The Master database must be an HFSQL database (Classic or Client/Server). 

- The mobile database (Subscriber) must be an HFSQL Classic database. 

- The structure of the database must be strictly identical on the two platforms.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

The steps for implementing a replication in a mobile application (Android or iOS) are as follows: 

1. [Installing the replication server](#NOTE2_3). 

2. [Defining the replication with ReplicEdit](#NOTE2_4). 

3. [Calling the different WLanguage functions to manage the synchronization in the mobile application (Android or iOS)](#NOTE2_5). 







<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Installing the replication server
<a name="installing_the_replication_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000051"></a>

The setup of the replication server is presented in the page named [Replication server for the assisted universal replication](../WDLang4/1000017227.md). 

Reminders/Notes

- IMPORTANT: The date and time time must be identical on the server and on the Android/iOS devices. The internal dates (the ones used by the replication in the HFSQL files) are in UTC. 

- The setup package of the replication server is provided with WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. It is found in the \\Install\\WServerR\\ directory of the setup folder of products. 

- If you own WEBDEV sites, the replication server and the WEBDEV Application Server can be installed on the same server.




**Caution**: Specific rights must be granted on the setup directory of replication server. Read rights and execution rights must be granted to the Internet user (IUSR_Computer_name account) on this directory (and in the sub-directories).  
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Defining the replication
<a name="defining_the_replication_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

The replication is defined by ReplicEdit. 

The steps for creating a replication for the Android/iOS applications are as follows: 

1. [Create a replication](../ReplicEdit/3526501.md). 

2. [Add files into a replication](../ReplicEdit/3526504.md). 

3. [Publish the replication](../ReplicEdit/3526505.md). 



<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Programming the replication
<a name="programming_the_replication_ELTPARAGRAPHE000088"></a>

In the Mobile application, the WLanguage functions must be used to perform the synchronization. 

The wizard for publishing the replication on the replication server provides a basic code: 


```wl
// Opens a replication on the replication server
ReplicOpen("replication name", "", "IP address", "login", "password")

// Initializes the replication by passing the parameters 
//IF ReplicInfo("replication name", replicInitialized) = False THEN
//	ReplicInitialize("replication name", <Parameters>)
//END

// Starts the synchronization
ReplicSynchronize("replication name")
```


The following functions must be used: 



|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [ReplicInfo](../WDLang4/1000017197.md) | Returns information about a replication. |
| [ReplicInitialize](../WDLang4/1000017195.md) | Initializes or reinitializes a replication defined by the replication editor (ReplicEdit). |
| [ReplicOpen](../WDLang4/1000017194.md) | Opens a replication in direct mode or with a replication server. |
| [ReplicSynchronize](../WDLang4/1000017196.md) | Synchronizes the data corresponding to a replication. |





**Remark**: In the code of the Android (or iOS) project, don't forget to configure the connection to the local database (HFSQL Classic file on the mobile device). 


