


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.Priority (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.Priorité***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Finds out and modifies the priority of the calling application.

**Remark**: The higher the priority is, the faster the application requests will be processed by the server.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Describe the connection
MyConnection is Connection

// Give a maximum priority to the application
MyConnection.Priority(10)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the priority of the calling application

`<Result> = <Connection>.Priority()`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Value of the priority for the application. This value is found between -10 (low priority) and 10 (high priority). 
By default, the priority is set to 0 when the application is started (standard priority).

**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection to the HFSQL server.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the priority of the calling application

`<Result> = <Connection>.Priority(<Priority>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Previous value of the priority for the application.

**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection to the HFSQL server.

**`<Priority>: (Integer)`**

New value of the priority that will be assigned to the client application. This value is found between -10 (low priority) and 10 (high priority). 
By default, the priority is set to 0 when the application is started (standard priority).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Modification rights
<a name="modification_rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000265"></a>

The rights to modify the priority are required to increase the priority of the current application. This right corresponds to the *hRightsPriority* constant (used in [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.InfoServerRights](../WDLang4/1000022668.md) and [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/1000022710.md)).

The rights to modify the priority are not required to consult or reduce the priority of the current application.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
