


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.EndNoDatabaseAccess (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.FinInterditAccèsBaseDeDonnées***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Re-allows the access (which means the connection) to one or more databases accessible via a connection.

**Remark**: The access to the databases had been previously blocked with [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.NoDatabaseAccess](../WDLang4/1000022690.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Describe the connection
MyConnection is Connection

IF MyConnection.NoDatabaseAccess("CustomerDatabase") = True THEN
	// Specific process
	...
	MyConnection.EndNoDatabaseAccess("CustomerDatabase") 
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Connection>.EndNoDatabaseAccess([<Database>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the access to the specified database (or to all the databases accessed by the connection) is restored, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection containing the database to which access must be restored.

**`<Database>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of database for which the access must restored.
If this parameter corresponds to "\*", access will be restored for all databases.
If this parameter is not specified, access will be restored for all the databases accessible by &lt;Connection&gt;.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Connection to a blocked database
<a name="connection_blocked_database_ELTPARAGRAPHE000258"></a>

In some cases (power failure for example), the connections to a database may be refused. For example, if a power failure occurs during the execution of this code (before [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.NoDatabaseAccess](../WDLang4/1000022690.md)):

```wl
// Describe the connection
MyConnection is Connection

// Open the connection
MyConnection.OpenConnection()
IF MyConnection.NoDatabaseAccess("CustomerDatabase") = True THEN
	Info("Unable to connect to the database")
END
```

To authorize access again, simply establish a connection without specifying a database and use **&lt;Connection variable&gt;.EndNoDatabaseAccess**.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Authorizing the access to a database locked by the HFSQL Control Center
<a name="authorizing_the_access_database_locked_the_hfsql_control_center_ELTPARAGRAPHE000284"></a>

When the connections to an HFSQL Client/Server database are refused, access can be granted again using [HFSQL Control Center](../CCHF/35400015.md). To do so, perform the following operations:

- Connect as administrator to the server without specifying the database,

- Display the "Connections" tab of server,

- In the ribbon, in the "Connections" group, expand the "Lock of connections" button and select "Authorize all the connections".




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
