


## &lt;Connection variable&gt;.DeactivateServerTrigger (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Connexion&gt;.DésactiveTriggerServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Disables an HFSQL Client/Server server trigger on a server. This trigger is disabled for all the clients of this server. This trigger can be re-enabled by [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.ActivateServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000022637.md).  

**Remark**: The functions for handling the server triggers are advanced functions. The server triggers can be created directly in the data model editor. For more details, see [Server triggers](../WDLang4/3044369.md).




<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Disabling a server trigger on the physical HFSQL files of a server

`<Result> = <Connection>.DeactivateServerTrigger(<Trigger> [, <Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u>True</u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u>False</u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Name of the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable that describes the connection to the HFSQL server.

**`<Trigger>: (Character string)`**

Name of the trigger to disable. This name was defined with [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.DescribeServerTrigger](../WDLang4/1000022653.md).

**`<Physical HFSQL Client/Server files>: (Optional character string)`**

Physical name of one or more HFSQL Client/Server data files associated with the connection ("CUSTOMER.FIC" for example). 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (","). 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), the trigger will be disabled on all the data files of the databases.


<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
