


## HRetrieveBackup (Function)

***In french: HRécupèreSauvegarde***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Retrieves locally the content of a compressed backup (in ZIP format) performed on an HFSQL server.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Describe the connection
MyConnection is Connection

HRetrieveBackup(MyConnection, BackupID, "C:\temp\Myfile.zip", PROGBAR_Progress)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = HRetrieveBackup(<Connection> , <Backup> , <Destination file> [, <Progress Bar>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the backup was retrieved,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to the server that contains the backup to retrieve. This connection corresponds to: 

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Backup>: (Integer or character string)`**

Backup to retrieve. Can correspond to:

- **Backup identifier**. This identifier can correspond to the identifier of full backup or to the identifier of differential backup. 
	During an immediate backup, this identifier is returned by [HBackup](../WDLang4/1000017081.md). This identifier can also be returned by [HInfoBackup](../WDLang4/1000017083.md).
	In a scheduled backup, this identifier corresponds to the **Identifier** property of the [hBackupDescription](../WDLang4/1000017455.md) variable. 

- **Path and name of backup**. This name was specified during the backup. This name can also be returned by [HInfoBackup](../WDLang4/1000017083.md). If this name corresponds to a relative path, the backup will be sought in the "Backup" subdirectory of HFSQL server. To specify the directory of Manta service, simply use "%%EXE%%".




**`<Destination file>: (Character string)`**

Path and name of local file in which the backup will be retrieved.

In the case of a full backup, the destination file is a zip file (the ".zip" extension must be specified in the file name. 

**`<Progress Bar>: (Optional control name, optional window name or optional integer)`**



- Name of the window where the progress bar will be displayed or name of the Progress Bar control.

- Handle of the window that displays the progress bar.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Rights required to retrieve a backup
<a name="rights_required_retrieve_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000118"></a>

To retrieve a backup, the user or the group must have the rights to perform backups (*hRightsBackup* constant). These rights apply to the servers and to the databases. For example, to perform a full server backup, you must have the rights to perform backups at server level. 

To find out whether these rights are granted to a user or to a group, use [HInfoServerRights](../WDLang4/3044322.md) or [HInfoDatabaseRights](../WDLang4/3044320.md).

To modify the rights granted to a user or to a group of users, use [HModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/3044328.md) or [HModifyDatabaseRights](../WDLang4/3044326.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
