


## &lt;HFSQL connection&gt;.RSRenameServer (Function)

***In french: &lt;Connexion HFSQL&gt;.RSRenommeNomServeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Changes the DNS name of the replication server if it has a new name. 

Caution: This operation must be done if only the server name has been changed (other aspects of the server are left unchanged: configuration, database architecture and system files must be the same). In particular, the replication configuration in the HFConf.ini file must not have been changed. Example: 

```txt
[REPLICATION]
PRIORITY=2
PASSWORD=XXXXX
PORT=9792
ROLE=3
SERVER_ID=2
```

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
listRS is array of hRSConfig

// List of replications
listRS = MyConnection1.RSListConfig()
FOR EACH ConfigReplication OF listRS	
	// If the configuration must be changed
	ConfigReplication.Server = "MyNewServerName:4997"
	IF NOT MyConnection1.RSRenameServer(ConfigReplication) THEN
		Trace(HErrorInfo())
	END
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Connection>.RenameServer(<Replication to rename>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the replication was modified, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Connection variable)`**

Connection to the master HFSQL server on which the replication configuration must be changed. This connection corresponds to: 

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [&lt;Connection variable&gt;.OpenConnection](../WDLang4/1000023962.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Replication to rename>: (hRSConfig variable)`**

Name of the [hRSConfig](../WDLang4/1000020484.md) variable describing the modified replication to update.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- This operation must be done only if the server is identical, except for its DNS name. The configuration, database architecture and system files must be the same.

- **&lt;HFSQL connection&gt;.RSRenameServer** does not allow you to "duplicate" or "move" a replication to another server.

- In a bidirectional replication, **&lt;HFSQL connection&gt;.RSRenameServer** must be called on the connection that corresponds to the server whose name has not been changed. 

- In a unidirectional replication, **&lt;HFSQL connection&gt;.RSRenameServer** must be called on the connection that corresponds to the master server. 

- In a unidirectional replication, if the name of the master server has changed, no additional actions are required. The modification will be automatically applied.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
