


## Errors while managing data files
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE001141"></a>
When an HFSQL function fails (returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> for example), the corresponding error number is returned by [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md). You have the ability to process the error and to retry the operation.

This page presents the main management errors of HFSQL data files. For each error, you will find:

- its number.

- the associated caption.

- the details of the error.




Several types of errors are listed:

- The error codes compatible with WINDEV 5.5/WEBDEV 1.5 (from 70001 to 71008). For backward compatibility with the Hyper File error numbers available in WINDEV 5.5/WEBDEV 1.5, all you have to do is add 70000 to the error number found in WINDEV 5.5/WEBDEV 1.5.

- The error codes specific to WINDEV/WEBDEV 28 (from 70150 to 73001).

- The error codes specific to transactions (HFSQL Classic and Client/Server) from 140000.




**Remark**: [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns the details of the last error that occurred when managing HFSQL data files.

**Caution: The HFSQL errors can also occur when using a table based on a data file**. In this case, the error **10085** occurs regardless of the HFSQL error. This error means that the control was not initialized because an HFSQL error occurred.


<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Error codes compatible with WINDEV 5.5
<a name="error_codes_compatible_with_windev_55_ELTTEXTE001171"></a>
**70001: H.FOUND=FALSE**

This message does not correspond to an error message, it is a status report.

It is returned for example after HReadSeek("Customer", "CustomerName","SMITH"): the value "SMITH" was not found.

**70002: H.OUT=TRUE**

This message does not correspond to an error message, it is a status report.

It is returned for example after [HRead](../WDLang4/3044047.md) if the pointer is positioned outside the file or after [HReadNext](../WDLang4/3044037.md) when there is nothing else to read.

**70003: FILE NOT FOUND**

The specified file does not exist. The file must be created by [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) (or [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md)).

**70007: READ ERROR**

This error occurs when a disk problem (damaged sector) or a read problem occurs on the network (temporary network problem, retry) or when the record number to read is null.

**70008: WRITE ERROR**

This error occurs when a disk problem (damaged sector) or a write problem occurs on the network (temporary network problem, retry) or when the record number to write is null.

**70009: DISK FULL**

This error occurs when there is no more space available on the disk to perform the requested operation.

**70010: DUPLICATE ON UNIQUE KEY**

This error occurs after [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md) or [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md). It indicates that the value of a unique key already exists in the file. No test was run for [HErrorDuplicates](../WDLang4/3044077.md), WINDEV detects it and signals it.

Remark: The record is neither modified nor inserted. The error occurs when running the function for file management that follows the function that triggered the error.

**70012: UNKNOWN KEY NAME**

The name of the key specified in the function for file management does not exist.

H.ErrIgnore has no effect for this error.

**70015: INTEGRITY ERROR**

This error occurs after [HDelete](../WDLang4/3044018.md), [TableDelete](../WDLang1/3074032.md), [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md), [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md), [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md), [HWrite](../WDLang4/3044092.md), ... It indicates that records linked to the deleted record have been found in the linked file. No test was run for [HErrorIntegrity](../WDLang4/3044086.md), WINDEV detects it and signals it.

Remark: The record is not deleted. The error occurs when running the function for file management that follows the function that triggered the error.

**70016: THE FILE DOES NOT CORRESPOND TO ITS DESCRIPTION**

The description of the physical file differs from the description of the file in the analysis or described dynamically ([HDescribeFile](../WDLang4/3044206.md)).

The data files must be synchronized in the data model editor of WINDEV: on the "Analysis" tab, in the "Analysis" group, expand "Synchronization" and select Synchronize Structure and Deployed Data (SDD, Auto Modif)".

**70018: UNKNOWN FILE**

This error occurs when the name of the data file passed in parameter to a file management function is not recognized by the HFSQL engine (analysis file, file described dynamically, query, alias, view, ...).

**70019: SEARCH NOT STARTED FOR THIS KEY**

[HReadNext](../WDLang4/3044037.md) or [HReadPrevious](../WDLang4/3044048.md) is called while no record is pointed for the key (with HReadSeek\*, [HReadFirst](../WDLang4/3044051.md), [HReadLast](../WDLang4/3044140.md)).

Remark: this error may occur if the file was closed once the search is started. The closing may be caused by a call to [HClose](../WDLang4/3044073.md) but also by a function that implicitly closes the file.

**70021: THE INDEX DOES NOT CORRESPOND TO THE DATA**

The data file and the index file are not synchronized anymore: you must re-index with [HIndex](../WDLang4/3044133.md).

Possible reason: the automatic modification has modified the data files without re-indexing.

**70022: WRONG FILE PASSWORD**

The password used for the data file is incorrect. No test was run for [HErrorPassword](../WDLang4/3044082.md).

Remark: The error occurs when running the function for file management that follows the function that triggered the error.

**70027: INTERNAL LOG ERROR**

A logged record was not found. Use WDLog to fix the problem.

**70029: ERROR OPENING LOG**

The log file is missing or the log file does not correspond to the data file. Use WDLog to fix the problem.

**70030: ERROR UPDATING LOG**

The log file cannot be updated. Read or write error or disk full.

**70031: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED IN TRANSACTION**

The following function is not allowed during a transaction (after [HTransactionStart](../WDLang4/3044002.md)), it must be deleted from the program by [HTransactionStart](../WDLang4/3044002.md).

**70034: THE LAST TRANSACTION FAILED**

A transaction is still in progress. It must be canceled. To do so, use:

- The [HTransactionCancel](../WDLang4/3044001.md) function.

- [HTransactionStart](../WDLang4/3044002.md) and [HTransactionEnd](../WDLang4/3044032.md) in the initialization code of your project (once the files are initialized and opened). Typical case: a transaction is started, the transaction fails, the program is restarted without cancelling the transaction.




**70037: FILE NOT MODIFIABLE**

Attempt to modify a file that cannot be modified (read-only).

**70046: INVALID INDEX FORMAT**

The format of the index file is not recognized by WINDEV.

Solution: Re-index the file with WDOptimizer (or [HIndex](../WDLang4/3044133.md)).

**70051: ERROR ON FUNCTION FOR ACCESSING VIEWS**

The message provides a detailed explanation of the error.

The problems that may occur can be:

- Problem while transferring the records from the view to the source file ([HViewToFile](../WDLang4/3044021.md) for example).

- Problem while reading the records of the view.

- Problem while retrieving the records from the source file of the view.

- Problem while writing the records of the view into the source file. 

- View not found. 

- Operation not possible on a record of the view because the record does not exist in the view.

- The data source does not contain the requested item.

- Unable to obtain a temporary file name or a temporary directory name.

- The available memory is insufficient.

- The desired type of operation cannot be performed.

- A sort item must be specified in order to use the *hViewDistinct* constant.

- The parameters of the join between two views are incorrect.

- To transfer the records from the view to the source table, the view must have been filled in lock mode.

- The requested sort not available on a browsing view.




**70052: CORRUPTED INDEX**

The index file is corrupted.

Solution: Re-index the data file with WDOptimizer (or with [HIndex](../WDLang4/3044133.md)).

**70055: ANALYSE NOT COMPATIBLE OR CORRUPTED**

The version of the analysis (.WDD file) is not recognized by the HFSQL engine.

Solution: Regenerate the analysis in the data model editor: on the "Analysis" tab, in the "Analysis" group, expand "Generation" and click "Generation".

**70100: LOCK (FILE OR RECORD)**

[HErrorLock](../WDLang4/3044099.md) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. The program tries to access a data file or a record already locked by another computer or by another program.

The function for file management that triggers this status report is not run.

**70109: INDEX FULL**

This error occurs when the index file has reached its maximum size.

**71038: WRONG ANALYSIS PASSWORD**

The password used to open the analysis is incorrect ([HOpenAnalysis](../WDLang4/3044106.md) or [HInitHF55](../WDLang4/3044010.md)).

Remark: The error occurs when running the function for file management that follows the function that triggered the error.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Error codes specific to WINDEV
<a name="error_codes_specific_windev_ELTTEXTE001195"></a>
**70150: UNEXPECTED SYSTEM ERROR**

Unexpected system error. Retry the operation.

The error message provides details about the problem.

**70151: INSUFFICIENT MEMORY**

Insufficient memory to complete the operation.

Close one or more applications or free disk space and repeat the operation.

**70152: INSUFFICIENT ACCESS RIGHTS**

You have no sufficient rights to access the data file (wrong password to access the network, unable to access the physical file, read-only file, ...).

Check whether the data file is not protected in write mode and whether you have sufficient network rights to access the data file (network).

**70180: DYNAMIC DESCRIPTION ERROR**

There are two cases:

- A mandatory parameter was not specified during the description of the data file (the logical name of the file is missing for example).




- An inconsistency appears in the dynamic description of the data file (a key memo for example).




The error message provides details about the problem.

**70181: TYPE OF FILE NOT SUPPORTED**

The file you try to access is not supported by the HFSQL engine.

**70182: WRONG RECORD NUMBER**

The specified record is outside the data file. This error may occur when the following functions are used: [HCross](../WDLang4/3044121.md), [HDelete](../WDLang4/3044018.md), [HLockRecNum](../WDLang4/3044152.md), [HUnlockRecNum](../WDLang4/3044194.md).

**70198: FUNCTION NOT IMPLEMENTED**

You are trying to use a function that does not exist.

**70199: INTERNAL HF DLL ERROR**

This error is caused by a specific operation. Write down the operation performed and contact PC SOFT Technical Support.

**70201: USING A FILE EXCEEDING 2GB**

You are trying to use a data file configured for a system that supports the files exceeding 2 GB. The current system does not support this type of file.

Modify the description of the file in the analysis. Regenerate the analysis. An automatic modification of data files will be performed.

**70202: ITEM UNKNOWN IN THE FILE**

You are trying to use an item that does not exist in the description of the data file.

Check the code used and the name of the item.

**70203: THE ITEM NUMBER IS INCORRECT**

You are trying to use an item that does not exist in the description of the data file.

Check the code used and the item number.

**70204: NO AVAILABLE HF CONTEXT**

Too many HFSQL contexts are opened. You are using too many independent contexts linked to your windows. Modify your the description of your windows.

**70205: NO CURRENT RECORD**

You are using an HFSQL function that handles the current record. No current record is found in the file. Use a positioning function (HRead\* for example) to select a record in the data file or specify the record number in the function.

**70206: ATTEMPT TO CROSS A DELETED RECORD**

A deleted record cannot be crossed. The data found in the record is invalid. To reactivate a deleted record, use [HWrite](../WDLang4/3044092.md) or [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md).

**70207: DESCRIPTION ALREADY FOUND**

You are trying to describe a data file, a query, a view, ... The name used is already known by the HFSQL engine. Use a different name.

**70208: ERROR INITIALIZING THE QUERY**

An error occurred in the query analysis. The error message provides details about the problem.

**70209: ERROR INITIALIZING THE FILTER**

An error occurred when analyzing the filter condition. The error message provides details about the problem.

**70210: UNABLE TO REINDEX**

The file is currently used and it cannot be re-indexed.

**70211: LAST FILE USED UNKNOWN**

No file name specified in the function. The file handled corresponds to the last file used. Though, there is no last file used.

Specify the name of the file in the function.

**70212: LAST ITEM USED UNKNOWN**

No item name specified in the function. Therefore, the item handled corresponds to the last item used. However, there is no last item used.

Specify the name of the item in the function.

**70213: ALIAS NAME ALREADY USED**

You are trying to create an alias. The name used is already known by the HFSQL engine. Use an alias name.

**70214: ABBREVIATION NAME ALREADY USED**

You are trying to use an abbreviation already known by the HFSQL engine. Use an abbreviation.

**70216: ATTACHED FILE TOO BIG**

A file exceeding 4 GB was attached to a binary memo item ([HLinkMemo](../WDLang4/3044173.md)). The files exceeding 4 GB are not supported.

**70217: UNABLE TO EXTRACT THE MEMO**

You are using [HExtractMemo](../WDLang4/3044072.md). No file name is defined in the header of the memo. Specify the name of a file from into which the memo must be checked out.

**70218: ERROR READING THE ATTACHED FILE**

The file attached to the memo ([HLinkMemo](../WDLang4/3044173.md)) cannot be read. Check the validity of the attached file (file currently used for example).

**70220: WRONG NAME FORMAT**

You are using space characters or tabulations in the name of the file or in the name of the dynamic item. These characters are not allowed.

**70221: MEMO/FILE OUT-OF-SYNC**

The memo file does not correspond to the data file.

**70222: TOO MANY RECORDS IN THE QUERY**

The query selects over 4 billions records. This is a limit of the HFSQL engine.

**70223: UNABLE TO CREATE THE ALIAS**

You are trying to create an alias on a query created with [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md). Execute [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md) again and replace the query name with the name of the desired alias.

**70224: UNABLE TO RUN THE AUTOMATIC MODIFICATION**

You are trying to run an automatic modification on a file other than an HFSQL Classic file. This operation is not allowed.

**70225: UNABLE TO RUN THE AUTOMATIC MODIFICATION**

The analysis is not the owner of the data file handled by the automatic modification (the data file was not created by this analysis). This operation is not allowed.

**70226: UNABLE TO RUN THE AUTOMATIC MODIFICATION**

The data file used is not described in the analysis (the data file was not created by this analysis). This operation is not allowed.

**70227: MODIFYING A FILE MORE RECENT THAN THE ANALYSIS**

The version of the analysis corresponding to the data file handled by the automatic modification is more recent than the current analysis. This operation is not allowed.

**70231: THE .FIC FILE HAS REACHED ITS MAXIMUM SIZE**

The data file has reached its maximum size defined according to its setting in the analysis or during the dynamic description. See the HFSQL limits for more details.

**70232: INSUFFICIENT MEMORY TO REINDEX**

Insufficient RAM to re-index the data file. Perform this operation on another computer.

**70233: NEGATIVE AUTOMATIC IDENTIFIER NOT ALLOWED**

You are trying to assign a negative value to an automatic identifier. This operation is not allowed.

**70235: NO ANALYSIS IN 5.5 FORMAT ATTACHED TO THE PROJECT**

You are using a function that accesses the Hyper File 5.5 DLL. To use this function, an analysis in WINDEV 5.5 format must be attached to your project. Use the [HInitHF55](../WDLang4/3044010.md) function.

**70236: NO CURRENT ANALYSIS**

An analysis must be opened to perform this operation. This is not the case. Use [HOpenAnalysis](../WDLang4/3044106.md) or attach an analysis to your project: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description". 

2. Select the "Analysis" tab.




**70237: NO CURRENT CONNECTION**

You are using an SQLxxxx function. You must define and establish a connection with [SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md).

**70238: UNABLE TO CANCEL DECLARATION**

You are trying to cancel a dynamic declaration ([HCancelDeclaration](../WDLang4/3044174.md)). The corresponding data file is still used. Close the file ([HClose](../WDLang4/3044073.md)) before canceling the declaration.

**70250: WRONG ITEM SUBSCRIPT**

You are handling an array item. The specified subscript does not exist.

**70251:ITEM SUBSCRIPT REQUIRED**

You are handling an array item. Specify a subscript to perform the current operation.

**70299: OPERATION INTERRUPTED BY THE USER**

The current operation was interrupted by the user (ESC key).

**70300: STRUCTURE OF .FIC FILE UNKNOWN**

The structure of the data file (.FIC) is not recognized by the HFSQL engine.

**70301: .FIC FILE CORRUPTED**

You are handling an unreadable data file. Use a backup.

**70302: INDEX FILE NOT FOUND**

The index file was not found. Re-index the data file.

**70303: INVALID FILE HEADER**

The file header is invalid. The sequence of deleted records is incorrect. The data file is corrupted. Re-index the data file or use a backup.

**70305: DIFFERENT GUIDAnalysis**

The file was created from a different analysis.



**70306: MODIFYING A FILE MORE RECENT THAN THE ANALYSIS**

The version of the analysis corresponding to the data file handled by the automatic modification is more recent than the current analysis. This operation is not allowed.

**70310: STRUCTURE OF .MMO FILE UNKNOWN**

The structure of the memo file (.MMO) is not recognized by the HFSQL engine.

**70311: .MMO FILE CORRUPTED**

You are using an unreadable memo file. Use a backup.

**70312: MEMO FILE (MMO) NOT FOUND**

The memo file was not found. Use a backup.

**70314: FTX FILE NOT FOUND**

The full-text index file (FTX file) was not found. Use a backup.

**70350: QUERY FILE (WDR) CORRUPTED**

The structure of the query file (.WDR) is corrupted.

Recreate the query in the query editor.

**70351: UNKNOWN QUERY FORMAT**

The structure of the query file (.WDR) is not recognized by the HFSQL engine.

Recreate the query in the query editor.

**70400: OPERATION ALLOWED ON VIEWS ONLY**

This function can be used on a view only. Check whether the name specified in the function corresponds to the name of a view.

**70401: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED**

This operation cannot be performed on this type of element. See the documentation corresponding to the operation performed.

**70402: OPERATION ALLOWED ON BINARY MEMOS ONLY**

This function can only be used on a binary memo. Check whether the name specified in the function corresponds to the name of a binary memo item.

**70403: OPERATION ALLOWED ON MEMOS ONLY**

This function can only be used on a memo. Check whether the name specified in the function corresponds to the name of a memo item.

**70404: OPERATION ALLOWED ON KEYS ONLY**

This function can only be used on a key. Check whether the name specified in the function corresponds to the name of a key item. (equivalent to error 12 in WINDEV 5.5).

**70405: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED ON AN ANALYSIS FILE**

This operation cannot be performed on a data file described in the current analysis. See the documentation corresponding to the operation performed.

**70406: DISTINCT BROWSE ALLOWED ON KEY ONLY**

The *hDistinct* constant can only be used with a key item.

**70407: FUNCTION NOT SUPPORTED**

This function cannot be used on this type of element. In Client/Server, this function is not supported by the server. The server must be upgraded.

See the documentation corresponding to the function.

**70408: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED ON AN AUTOMATIC IDENTIFIER**

This operation cannot be performed on an Automatic Identifier item. See the documentation corresponding to the operation performed.

**70409: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED ON THE DATABASE**

This operation cannot be performed on the current database. See the documentation corresponding to the operation performed.

**70410: OPERATION NOT ALLOWED ON A COMPOSITE KEY**

This operation cannot be performed on a Composite Key item. See the documentation corresponding to the operation performed.

**70420: NO AUTOMATIC EXECUTION OF QUERY WITH PARAMETERS WHEN RUNNING THE TABLE CONTROL**

If the query associated with the Table control was not run and if no parameter was defined for this query, the query is not run to avoid loading too many records: the Table control will remain empty. At least one parameter is required in order for the query to be run automatically.

**70450: LIMITATION OF THE TRIAL VERSION**

This operation cannot be performed with WINDEV Trial Version. A limit of WINDEV Trial Version may have been reached. The error message presents the limitation in details.

**70500: ERROR ON FUNCTION PARAMETERS**

The function parameters are incorrect. See the documentation corresponding to the function.

The error message provides details about the problem.

**70501: INVALID CONSTANT**

The specified constant is invalid for this function or property. See the relevant documentation.

**70550: VALUE OF FILE PROPERTY NOT AVAILABLE**

You are trying to retrieve the value of a property on a data file. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70551: VALUE OF FILE PROPERTY NOT MODIFIABLE**

You are trying to modify the value of a property on a data file. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70560: VALUE OF ITEM PROPERTY NOT AVAILABLE**

You are trying to retrieve the value of a property on an item. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70561: VALUE OF ITEM PROPERTY NOT MODIFIABLE**

You are trying to modify the value of a property on an item. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70570: VALUE OF LINK PROPERTY NOT AVAILABLE**

You are trying to retrieve the value of a property on a link. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70571: VALUE OF LINK PROPERTY NOT MODIFIABLE**

You are trying to modify the value of a property on a link. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70580: VALUE OF CONNECTION PROPERTY NOT AVAILABLE**

You are trying to retrieve the value of a property on a connection. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70581: VALUE OF CONNECTION PROPERTY NOT MODIFIABLE**

You are trying to modify the value of a property on a connection. This operation is not allowed. See the relevant documentation.

**70600: HIMPORTTEXT: LINE STRUCTURE ERROR**

You are trying to import a text file. The HFSQL engine has detected an error in the structure of the text file.

The error message provides details about the problem.

**70601: HIMPORTTEXT: COPY ERROR**

You are trying to import a text file. An error occurred when adding records into the data file (.FIC).

The error message provides details about the problem.

**70602: HIMPORTHF55: POSSIBLE DATA LOSS**

You are trying to import a data file in Hyper File 5.5 format. The type of a source item differs from the type of the corresponding destination item. The type conversion can trigger a loss of data. You can avoid this error by using a constant to force the import. See the relevant documentation.

**70603: HIMPORTHF55: NO DESTINATION ITEM**

You are trying to import a data file in Hyper File 5.5 format. A source item in the file in 5.5 format has no destination in the file in HFSQL Classic format. You can avoid this error by using a constant to force the import. See the relevant documentation.

**70604: UNABLE TO RETRIEVE DESCRIPTION IN 5.5 FORMAT**

You are trying to retrieve a file description found in a WDD file in 5.5 format. This description is invalid. Regenerate the WDD in 5.5.

**70700: MODIFICATION CONFLICT**

The HFSQL engine has detected a conflict during the data modification. For more details, see [Assisted HFSQL error handling](../WDLang4/3044188.md).

**70710: MANDATORY ITEM VALUE**

The value of an item is mandatory in order to write the record. The item was not filled (case of databases handled by OLE DB). For more details, see [Assisted HFSQL error handling](../WDLang4/3044188.md).

**70720: FILE REINDEXING IN PROGRESS**

An operation is performed on the file while this one is currently reindexed. The operation must be retried at the end of re-indexing. To find out whether a re-index operation is in progress, use [HIndexingInProgress](../WDLang4/3044131.md).

For more details, see [Assisted HFSQL error handling](../WDLang4/3044188.md).

**70800: LOCK ERROR**

A lock error occurred on the previous function and no test was run ([HErrorLock](../WDLang4/3044099.md)).

**70801: INTEGRITY ERROR**

An integrity error occurred on the previous function and no test was run ([HErrorIntegrity](../WDLang4/3044086.md)).

**70802: DUPLICATE ERROR**

A duplicate error occurred on the previous function and no test was run ([HErrorDuplicates](../WDLang4/3044077.md)).

**70803: PASSWORD ERROR**

A password error occurred on the previous function and this error has not been checked ([HErrorPassword](../WDLang4/3044082.md)).

**70900: THE AUTOMATIC HELP FAILED**

No value was returned by the window or procedure for automatic help. See the documentation.

**70901: THE AUTOMATIC HELP FAILED**

A wrong type of value was returned by the window or procedure for automatic help. See the documentation.

**70902: THE AUTOMATIC HELP FAILED**

An unauthorized value was returned by the window or procedure for automatic help. See the documentation.

**71005: UNABLE TO OPEN THE XBASE FILE**

Equivalent to error 24 of HFSQL files.

**72000: WRONG INITIALIZATION OF EXTERNAL LANGUAGE**

The buffer associated with the file was not defined (bAssociate).

**73000: PROBLEM LOADING A DLL**

The problem is presented in details in the error message.

**73001: ERROR SPECIFIC TO NATIVE ACCESS**

The problem is presented in details in the error message.

**73050: OLE DB DLL ERROR**

The problem is presented in details in the error message.

**73500: HF5 DLL ERROR**

The problem is presented in details in the error message.

**73501: INCORRECT DESCRIPTION**

The file description returned by Hyper File 5.5 differs from the description defined in the analysis in HFSQL Classic format. Check both descriptions.

**73625: THE BACKUP DOES NOT EXIST**

The backup whose identifier is '1' does not exist. See the details of the error with HInfoBackup()

**74000: COMMUNICATION ERROR**

This error may be caused by an error of name resolution, a timeout error, a loss of connection, ...). 
The problem is presented in details in the error message.

**74001: ACCESS TO SERVER DENIED**

The login or the password is incorrect, the user account was disabled, the password has expired or the IP address is refused. .  

**74002: VERSION TOO OLD**

The version of the client or the version of the server is too old. An upgrade is required.

**74003: WRONG INTEGRITY CONSTRAINT**

The constraint of referential integrity links a file in Client/Server mode to a file found on another server or to a file in HFSQL Classic mode.   

**74004: WRONG DATABASE NAME**

The name of the database is empty, invalid or reserved.   

**74005: ABSOLUTE PATH**

You have been using an absolute path. In HFSQL Client/Server, the path must be relative to the database.   

**74006: CONFIGURATION FILE**

The configuration file of the HFSQL server does not exist. Reconfigure your server.    

**74007: WRONG NAME**

The specified name is not an existing username or group name.  

**74009: USER NAME ALREADY USED**

The specified user name is already used (by another user or by another group).

**74010: GROUP NAME ALREADY USED**

The specified group name is already used (by another group or by another user).    

**74011: DATABASE LOCKED**

The database is locked.   

**74012: CLIENT/SERVER MODE NOT SUPPORTED**

This HFSQL DLL does not support Client/Server mode.   

**74013: MULTI SERVER C/S QUERY NOT ALLOWED**

The files used by the query must be found on the same HFSQL server.

**74016: INVALID CACHE PAGE SIZE**

The size of the cache page is invalid.

**74018: THE FILE DOES NOT EXIST ON THE SERVER**

[HDeleteFile](../WDLang4/3044294.md) tries to delete a file that does not exist on the server.

**74020: INVALID NAME OF HFSQL SERVER**

The name of the HFSQL server is not valid. Check the name used.

**74030: RIGHTS PROBLEM**

A problem about rights occurred. This authorization can be given by the server administrator or via the HFSQL Control Center.

**74031: UNABLE TO MODIFY RIGHTS**

This modification of rights is not allowed.

**74032: UNABLE TO MODIFY RIGHTS**

Unable to modify the rights because the database or the file does not exist.

**75000: The server cannot define whether the XXX procedure must be run**

This error can occur in the following cases:

- A stored procedure with the same name is used with several databases and several connections. The server cannot define whether the XXX procedure must be run with the YYY connection on the ZZZ database or with the YYY1 connection on the ZZZ1 database. 
	Solution: Specify the connection and the database to use.

- Two connections to the database are available. The server cannot defined whether the XXX procedure on the ZZZ database must be run with the YYY connection or with the YYY1 connection. 
	Solution: Specify the connection to use

- The procedure is used in several sets of procedures.




**75001: The database was not specified**

This error can occur when several databases exist for the same connection. To run the stored procedure (XXX), specify a database in the connection used.

**75002: Stored procedure not found**

This error occurs when the procedure called is not found in the sets of procedures installed on the server.

**75003: A WLanguage error occurred while running the stored procedure**

This error occurs when the stored procedure contains WLanguage errors.

**75004: The XXX element does not exist**

The stored procedure or the stored query does not exist.

**75005: The XXX element cannot be updated**

The stored procedure or the stored query is currently used. To update this element, disconnect the users.

**75006: Set of procedures not compatible with the 64-bit servers**

The set of procedures is used on a 64-bit server. In order for this set of procedures to operate, you must select "Enable the compilation errors and the 64-bit compatibility": 

1. On the "Analysis" tab, in the "Current element" group, click "Description". 

2. Select the "Compilation" tab.




**75010: Unable to save**

This error occurs when using an invalid destination path for a backup.

**75011: Unable to delete because backup in progress**

This error occurs when the element that must be deleted (database or file) is currently saved.

**75014: Invalid backup destination**

No backup can be performed inside the directory of databases.

**75015: Unable to restore**

Unable to restore the databases because a client is connected.

**75016: Unable to restore**

Unable to restore the databases because another connection has been opened toward one of the databases.

**75017: Invalid backup identifier**

The identifier of the backup does not exist.

**75018: Unable to restore**

The specified path contains no valid backup.

**75019: Unable to restore the server**

You are using a connection to a database. To restore a server, you must use a connection without database.

**75020: Unable to restore the database**

An opened connection is found on the database to restore.

**75021: Unable to restore**

The server cannot be restored because a backup is in progress.

**75100: The reconnection failed**

The reconnection fails because the application has a transaction in progress. Indeed, the transaction was automatically canceled by the server when the client was disconnected.

**75101: The reconnection failed**

The connection fails because the application has a view or a query currently filled (with a browse operation on the started view or query).

**75102: The reconnection failed**

The reconnection fails because a file is locked.

**75103: The reconnection failed**

The reconnection failed because a file is locked in read/write.

**75104: The reconnection failed**

The reconnection fails because a lock in write mode was implemented and the record was modified since the disconnection.  

**75105: The reconnection failed**

The reconnection fails because the reconnection is not supported by the server (version earlier than version 15).

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Error codes specific to the transactions
<a name="error_codes_specific_the_transactions_ELTTEXTE001219"></a>
**140002: TRANSACTION IN PROGRESS**

A transaction is already in progress.

**140003: NO TRANSACTION IN PROGRESS**

No transaction is in progress.

**140004: UNEXPECTED ERROR**

An unexpected HFSQL error occurred.

**140005: TRANSACTION NOT CANCELED**

The transaction has not been canceled.

**140007: UNABLE TO START THE TRANSACTION**

Unable to start the specified transaction.

**140009: INVALID TRANSACTION FILE**

The transaction file is not a valid transaction file. The format is invalid.

**140010: UNKNOWN FILE**

The file is unknown.

**140011: THE TRANSACTION CANNOT BE CANCELED**

The transaction has not been canceled: an integrity error or a duplicate error occurred.

**140020: INVALID PASSWORD**

The password of the transaction file does not correspond to the one of the source file.


