


## HActivateTrigger (Function)

***In french: HActiveTrigger***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Re-enables a trigger that was disabled by [HDeactivateTrigger](../WDLang4/3044089.md).

**Reminder**: A trigger is a WLanguage procedure automatically called by the HFSQL engine whenever an HFSQL function is run. A trigger is defined by [HDescribeTrigger](../WDLang4/3044074.md).

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HActivateTrigger([<List of HFSQL data files> [, <List of HFSQL functions>]] [, <Type>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the operation was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<List of HFSQL data files>: (Optional character string)`**

Logical name of one or more HFSQL data files. 
To specify several names, the names of the data files must be separated by a comma (","). To use all the data files found in the analysis, this parameter must be equal to "\*". 
By default,  &lt;List of HFSQL data files&gt; = "\*".

**`<List of HFSQL functions>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of one or more HFSQL functions on which the trigger must be implemented. To specify several names of functions, the names of functions must be separated by a comma (","). You have the ability to define triggers on the following HFSQL functions:

- [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md), 

- [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md), 

- [HDelete](../WDLang4/3044018.md), 

- [HWrite](../WDLang4/3044092.md), 

- [HCross](../WDLang4/3044121.md)


If &lt;List of HFSQL functions&gt; is set to "\*", all the HFSQL functions used to activate a trigger are taken into account. 
By default, &lt;List of HFSQL functions&gt; = "\*".

**`<Type>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Indicates the type of trigger. All triggers are affected if this parameter is not specified.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *hTriggerAfter* | The procedure is run after the HFSQL function |
| *hTriggerBefore* | The procedure is run before the HFSQL function |





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
