


## Managing connections
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000169"></a>
WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose different methods for describing a connection:

- In the data model editor,

- With [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md), [HChangeConnection](../WDLang4/3044150.md), etc.

- By using the [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) type and the WLanguage properties. 






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Describing a connection in the data model editor
<a name="describing_connection_the_data_model_editor_ELTTEXTE000199"></a>


### To describe a connection in the data model editor: 
<a name="describe_connection_the_data_model_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

1. Open the data model editor.

2. On the "Analysis" tab, in the "Connection" group, click "Connections".

3. In the wizard for connection creation, specify:

	- The type of connection to create (HFSQL Client/Server or external database), 

	- The characteristics of the connection (port, database, user, password, ...).




4. If a connection was already described in the analysis, the list of connections as well as their characteristics displays (this list can be modified and tested).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Describing a connection with HDescribeConnection,...
<a name="describing_connection_with_hdescribeconnection_ELTTEXTE000223"></a>
The [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) and [HChangeConnection](../WDLang4/3044150.md) functions, ... allow you to describe a connection and to use it. The principle is as follows:

- [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) describes a new connection to an external database. This connection is named. Specific parameters can be defined such as the management mode of cursors (if the accessed database allows it).

- To associate this connection with a table or with a file, use [HChangeConnection](../WDLang4/3044150.md).

- To open the connection, use [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md). If the parameters of the connection described by **HDescribeConnection** are incorrect, [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md) will return an error.

- With [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md), an Oracle table description imported into the analysis can be directly used by HFSQL Classic data files. Simply describe a temporary connection to an HFSQL Classic database and associate it with the file description from in the analysis.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Describing a connection via the Connection type and via its properties
<a name="describing_connection_via_the_connection_type_and_via_its_properties_ELTTEXTE000247"></a>
A [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable is used to describe one or more connections to external databases (HFSQL Client/Server, Native Connector, etc.).

The connection can be established by [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

The [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md) variable can also be used to:

- describe a new connection (equivalent to [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md)).

- create a connection (that will be opened by [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md)).

- modify an existing connection.





