


## HEndNoDatabaseAccess (Function)

***In french: HFinInterditAccèsBaseDeDonnées***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Re-allows the access (which means the connection) to one or more databases accessible via a connection.

**Remark**: The access to the databases had been previously blocked with [HNoDatabaseAccess](../WDLang4/3044286.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF HNoDatabaseAccess("MyConnection", "CustomerDatabase") = True THEN
	// Specific process
	...
	HEndNoDatabaseAccess("MyConnection", "CustomerDatabase") 
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HEndNoDatabaseAccess(<Connection> [, <Database>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the access to the specified database (or to all the databases accessed by the connection) is restored, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection containing the database to which access must be restored. This connection corresponds to:

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Database>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of database for which the access must restored.
If this parameter corresponds to "\*", access will be restored for all databases.
If this parameter is not specified, access will be restored for all the databases accessible by &lt;Connection&gt;.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Connection to a blocked database
<a name="connection_blocked_database_ELTPARAGRAPHE000126"></a>

In some cases (power failure for example), the connections to a database may be refused. For example, if a power failure occurs during the execution of this code (before [HNoDatabaseAccess](../WDLang4/3044286.md)):

```wl
// Describe the connection
HDescribeConnection("MyConnection", "Julia", "Password", "MyHFServer", ...
		"CustomerDatabase", hAccessHFClientServer, HORead)
// Open the connection
HOpenConnection("MyConnection")
IF HNoDatabaseAccess("MyConnection", "CustomerDatabase") = True THEN
	Info("Unable to connect to the database")
END
```

To authorize access again, simply establish a connection without specifying a database and use **HEndNoDatabaseAccess**.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Authorizing the access to a database locked by the HFSQL Control Center
<a name="authorizing_the_access_database_locked_the_hfsql_control_center_ELTPARAGRAPHE000149"></a>

When the connections to an HFSQL Client/Server database are refused, access can be granted again using [HFSQL Control Center](../CCHF/35400015.md). To do so, perform the following operations:

- Connect as administrator to the server without specifying the database,

- Display the "Connections" tab of server,

- In the ribbon, in the "Connections" group, expand the "Lock of connections" button and select "Authorize all the connections". 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
