


## H.SQLServerMode (Variable)

***In french: H.ModeSQLServer***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to specify the version of the Native SQL Server Connector (or Native SQL Server Access) that will be used. 

The constant *hNativeAccessSQLServer* does not change. It must always be used in the functions for handling the Native SQL Server Connector ([HDeclareExternal](../WDLang4/3044204.md), [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md), [HListFile](../WDLang4/3044045.md), [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md)).
<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`H.SQLServerMode = <Value>`
---

**`<Value>: (Integer)`**



- **0** to force the use of the Native SQL Server Connector via OLEDB.

- **1** (default) to use the installed Native Connector. If both versions of the Native Connector are installed, the Native Connector via OLE DB will be used. 

- **3** to force the use of the Native SQL Server Connector via ODBC.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

By default, the Native Connector selected during the setup is used.. If the Native Connectors via OLE DB and ODBC are installed, the Native Connector via OLE DB will be used.

The **H.SQLServerMode** variable is used to force a mode. The variable must be modified before using [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) and/or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md). 
The key word **WD CLIENT VERSION** specified in the [optional connection information](../WDLang4/9000124.md) is used to indicate the SQL Server Client to use. 
For example, the string "WD CLIENT VERSION = 2012" is used to force the access via an SQL Server 2012 Client installed on the workstation (msoledbsql), preferable to the driver provided by Windows (sqloledb).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Note
<a name="note_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

[HListProvider](../WDLang4/3044232.md) and [SQLListSource](../WDLang4/3072027.md) take the **H.SQLServerMode** variable into account. 
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### DLLs used
<a name="dlls_used_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

- The Native SQL Server Connector via OLE DB corresponds to: 

	- the wd280sqlserver.dll library (in 32-bit mode),

	- the wd280sqlserver64.dll library (in 64-bit mode).




- The Native SQL Server Connector via ODBC corresponds to: 

- the wd280sqlserver2.dll library (in 32-bit mode), 

- the wd280sqlserver2_64.dll library (in 64-bit mode).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
