
## HFSQL data files exceeding 2 gigabytes 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000114"></a>
By default, the HFSQL engine allows you to manage large data files (up to 2 gigabytes). 

When the size of a data file (including its index, its full-text index and/or its memo) exceeds 2 gigabytes, a specific configuration is required in the data model editor and in the hardware.

Indeed, to manage data files exceeding 2 gigabytes, you must use:

- an operating system that supports the files exceeding 4 gigabytes. The following operating systems do not support the files exceeding 4 gigabytes: Windows 98 and Windows Me.

- A file system that supports the files exceeding 4 gigabytes (NTFS for example in Windows). 




**Caution**: This configuration is required on the computer where the data files are installed and on the computers accessing these data files. Therefore, a computer equipped with Windows 98 cannot access a data file exceeding 2 gigabyte installed on Windows 2000.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the data files (in the data model editor)
<a name="configuring_the_data_files_the_data_model_editor_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>
To manage the data files exceeding 2 gigabytes: 

1. Display the description of the requested data file ("Description of data file" from the popup menu).

2. In the "Details" tab, check "Manage data files exceeding 2 GB (NTFS only)".




**Caution**: These data files can only be used from a computer equipped with an operating system that supports files exceeding 4 gigabytes.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Using data files exceeding 2 gigabytes
<a name="using_data_files_exceeding_2_gigabytes_ELTTEXTE000168"></a>


### Dynamic description of data files
<a name="dynamic_description_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

During the dynamic description of a data file (via the HFSQL properties and [HDescribeFile](../WDLang4/3044206.md)), the management mode of the file size can be configured by [HugeFile](../Proprietes/2512037.md).
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### WLanguage property
<a name="wlanguage_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>




|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [HugeFile](../Proprietes/2512037.md) | The **HugeFile** property is used to configure the maximum size of a data file. |




<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Reindexing
<a name="reindexing_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

**Caution**: Reindexing data files exceeding 2 gigabytes can take quite a long time.


