
## HInitHF55 (Function)

***In french: HInitHF55***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to access specific functions for managing xBase (or dBase) data if Native xBase Access provided with WINDEV or WEBDEV is not available.

Remarks: 

- We advise you to use Native xBase Access provided with WINDEV.

- This function is not available when using a stand-alone executable. 




**To access an xBase file without using the standard Native xBase Access:**

- **WINDEV or WEBDEV application without Hyper File 5.5 data file in the analysis:**
	You must use an analysis created by WINDEV 5.5. 
	An analysis in WINDEV 5.5 format is available in the "Personal\\Templates" subdirectory of the setup directory of your product (**ForxBase.WDD** file). This analysis must be copied into the directory of your project and associated with the project by **HInitHF55**.

- **WINDEV or WEBDEV application with one or more Hyper File 5.5 data files in the analysis:**
	no specific configuration is required.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// WINDEV application without file in WinDev 5.5 format
HInitHF55("C:\File\ForxBase.WDD")
HDBDescribeFile("DBCUSTOMER","CD","C:\FILE\CUSTOMER.DBF")
HDBDescribeField("LASTNAME,C,20")
HDBDescribeField("FIRSTNAME,C,20")
HDBDescribeField("AGE,N,3,0")
HDBDescribeField("BALANCE,N,10,2")
HDBDescribeField("MARRIED,L")
HDBDescribeField("DOB,D")
HDBDescribeField("INFO,M")
HDBCreation()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HInitHF55(<Full Path of WDD file> [, <Password of WDD file>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if no problem occurred, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) returns more details about the problem.




**`<Full Path of WDD file>: (Character string)`**

Access path to the .WDD file of analysis in Hyper File 5.5 format. All the analysis formats recognized by Hyper File 5.5 can be used (WINDEV 5.5B, 5.5, 5.0 and 4.1). This path is taken into account if no analysis is opened or if the opened analysis contains no data file in 5.5 format ("Details" tab of the analysis description).

**`<Password of WDD file>: (Optional character string)`**



- Password associated with the analysis. 

- Empty string ("") if no password was defined.






<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
