


## HOptimizeQuery (Function)

***In french: HOptimiseRequête***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Optimizes the Select queries by using idle times when handling an application (period without processes). Optimizes the access to the indexes of HFSQL Classic data files.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
HOptimizeQuery(QRY_Customer, 34)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HOptimizeQuery(<Query name or SQL code> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the data file was optimized, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. [HErrorInfo](../WDLang4/3044071.md) returns more details.




**`<Query name or SQL code>: (Character string)`**



- Logical name of the query used (Select query only).

- SQL code of the query used (Select query only).




**`<Parameter 1>: (Optional parameters (the type corresponds to the parameter type))`**

Values of the parameters expected by the query in order of initialization (visible in the query editor). Each parameter must correspond to the expected type. The different parameters are separated by a comma. 
The query parameters can also be passed before **HOptimizeQuery** using the following notation: &lt;QueryName&gt;.&lt;ParameterName&gt; = &lt;Value&gt;. 
The parameters are ignored if "&lt;Query name or SQL code&gt;" corresponds to the SQL code of the query used.



**`<Parameter N>: (Optional parameters (the type corresponds to the parameter type))`**

Values of the parameters expected by the query in order of initialization (visible in the query editor). Each parameter must correspond to the expected type. The different parameters are separated by a comma. 
The query parameters can also be passed before **HOptimizeQuery** using the following notation: &lt;QueryName&gt;.&lt;ParameterName&gt; = &lt;Value&gt;. 
The parameters are ignored if "&lt;Query name or SQL code&gt;" corresponds to the SQL code of the query used.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Differences between HOptimize and HOptimizeQuery
<a name="differences_between_hoptimize_and_hoptimizequery_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

- [HOptimize](../WDLang4/3044005.md) loads the system cache with the entire file index. There is a risk of overloading the system caches if the data file is very large or if the application uses several large data files. 
	To avoid the risk of saturation, avoid calling [HOptimize](../WDLang4/3044005.md) on too many data files or key items.

- **HOptimizeQuery** loads the system caches with only the index sections required by the specified query, for all the data files used by the query. This function is used to optimize the queries.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

- **HOptimizeQuery** immediately gives control back to the program and is run in the background.

- To avoid the risk of overload, avoid calling **HOptimizeQuery** on a large number of requests.

- If an optimization is in progress when **HOptimizeQuery** is called, the current optimization is automatically stopped.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
