


## HPriorityClient (Function)

***In french: HPrioritéClient***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Modifies the priority of a client application. The applications whose priority must be modified are the client applications described in the [HClient](../WDLang4/3044340.md) structure.

**Remark**: The higher the priority of client application is, the faster the requests of this application will be processed by the server.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the HClient structure
HClient.Application = "MyClientApplication"

// Change the priority of the application
HPriorityClient("MyConnection", 5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HPriorityClient(<Connection> , <Priority>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the change of priority was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) is used to identify the error.




**`<Connection>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection to the HFSQL server. This connection corresponds to: 

- the name of the connection defined in the data model editor or with [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md).

- the name of a variable of type [Connection](../WDLang4/1514073.md).




**`<Priority>: (Integer)`**

New value of the priority that will be assigned to the client application. This value is found between -10 (low priority) and 10 (high priority). 
By default, the priority is set to 0 when the application is started (standard priority).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
To modify the priority of the specified client application, the rights to modify the priority are required. This right corresponds to the *hRightsPriority* constant (used in [HInfoServerRights](../WDLang4/3044322.md) and [HModifyServerRights](../WDLang4/3044328.md)).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
