


## HClose (Function)

***In french: HFerme***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Closes a data file or all the data files opened by the current user: all the corresponding physical data files are closed for the current user. For the HFSQL data files, the following files are closed:

- the data file (.FIC),

- the index file (.NDX) if it exists,

- the memo file (.MMO) if it exists.

- the full-text index file (.FTX) if it exists.




**When closing the data file**: 

- The locks (on the data file and/or some of its records) are unlocked.

- The filters defined on the data file with [HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md) are automatically deleted. 

- The current iterations on the data file are canceled. 

- The current searches on the data file are canceled. 




Once the data file is closed, the reassignments performed by [HChangeName](../WDLang4/3044141.md), [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md) and [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) are kept.

If a query was executed on the data file, [HCancelDeclaration](../WDLang4/3044174.md) must be called on the query in order for the closing to be effective.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Close the "Supplier" data file
HClose(Supplier)
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
IF NOT HClose("") THEN
	Error ("Problem when closing data files")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HClose([<Data file>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the data file was closed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [HError](../WDLang4/3044088.md) returns more details about the problem.




**`<Data file>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of data file to close. 
If this name is not specified, **HClose** will close the last data file used by the last HFSQL management function (function starting with "H").
If this parameter is equal to "\*" or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), all the opened data files will be closed. 
This parameter can also correspond to the name of a [group of files (or custom-folder) defined in the analysis](../Editeurs/2011003.md) (not available in Android and Android widget).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Closing the tables and the connection
<a name="closing_the_tables_and_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000141"></a>

When all the tables that use the same connection (tables opened on the same database with the same connection parameters) are closed, the connection is automatically closed.

To close a connection, use [HCloseConnection](../WDLang4/3044095.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280hf.dll
