
## HSetREP (Function)

***In french: HGèreREP***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the management of .REP file. For more details, see [.REP file](../WDLang4/3044186.md).



**Remark**: The management of .REP file is enabled by default.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Disables the management of .REP file
HSetREP(False)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = HSetREP(<Management> [, <Path of .REP> [, <Name of .REP file>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**

Corresponds to the former management mode of .REP file (before the call to **HSetREP**): 

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the management of .REP was enabled,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the management of .REP was disabled.




**`<Management>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the management of .REP is enabled, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if this management must be disabled.




**`<Path of .REP>: (Optional character string)`**

If this parameter is specified, **HSetREP** uses the .REP file located in the specified directory. 
If this parameter is not specified, the default path corresponds to: 


- the previous path of the .REP file specified for the current analysis.

- if no path was specified beforehand: 
	1. the path of the analysis (.WDD), 
	2. the path of the application library (.WDL) 
	3. by default, the path of the application (.EXE). This is the most common case.




**`<Name of .REP file>: (Optional character string)`**

If this parameter is specified, **HSetREP** uses this name for the .REP file. 
If this parameter is not specified, the name of the analysis is used as name for the .REP file. 
In all cases, the extension of the .REP file is ".REP".  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Enabling the .REP
<a name="enabling_the_rep_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

- **If the &lt;Management&gt; parameter is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>**, the .REP will be updated each time a data file is opened or created in the current analysis. Then, the tool for automatic modification of data files will be able to identify the files that must be modified.

- **If the &lt;Management&gt; parameter is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>**, the .REP file is not updated. In this case, the location of these files must be specified manually to the tool for automatic modification of data files. If the name of.REP is specified, this name will be used for the next activation (if a new name is not specified meanwhile).

- The .REP file is managed by context. A component that uses an independent HFSQL context will not be affected by the call to **HSetREP**.




**Remark**: When the .REP is not the default one, its location is stored in the **HFRep.ini** file. This file is found in the "Application Data\\PC SOFT" directory of the shared data of the application (for backward compatibility with the earlier versions, this file can also be found in the Windows directory).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280hf.dll
