
## Installing the robot controller
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>
The monitoring robot includes three executables.

The first executable to install is [the executable corresponding to the robot](../RobotMonitor/3541101.md). The monitoring robot is always started on a computer and it runs all the requested tests. It must be installed on a computer that is never turned off.

The second executable is the **robot controller (or counter-robot)**. **Its setup is optional**. The counter-robot is an additional security tool. It is used to check whether the monitoring robot operates properly. If it is installed, the counter-robot must be installed on a computer that will never be switched off, different from the setup computer of the monitoring robot.  

The third executable is the [robot monitor](../RobotMonitor/3541103.md). The monitor can be installed on any computer. It is used to edit the tests and the different parameters of the robot.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Robot controller setup wizard
<a name="robot_controller_setup_wizard_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>


### Installing the robot controller
<a name="installing_the_robot_controller_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

To install the robot controller:

1. Launch the installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) on the computer where the robot controller is to be installed. Reminder: The installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) can be found in the "Install\\Robot" subdirectory of the IDE used.

2. Validate the license.

3. Select "Install the Robot Controller" and go to the next step.

4. Select the setup directory of the robot controller. Go to the next step.  

5. The setup is completed. Validate. The robot controller is installed. All you have to do now is configure the robot controller. 



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuring the counter-robot
<a name="configuring_the_counterrobot_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

Once the counter-robot is installed, a configuration wizard opens automatically. In this wizard: 

1. Specify the name of the counter-robot. This name will be used in the different status reports sent. We advise you to use a name that can be easily identified. Go to the next step.

2. Specify the location of robot files. This directory corresponds to the shared directory created on the computer where the robot was installed. Go to the next step.

3. Select the alert options of the counter-robot. These options will be used by default for all the tests run by the monitoring robot. You can:

	- use the in-house messaging of WINDEV and WEBDEV: WDBal. This option assumes that the database of the Control Centers is accessible from the computer of the monitoring robot.

	- send the messages by email. This option assumes that the computer of the monitoring robot can access an email server.

	- use another program, that will perform a specific process of the messages. This other program must be accessible from the computer of the monitoring robot.
			The alerts of the counter-robot can also be chosen in the monitor. We advise you to select at least one of the alert options for the counter-robot.




4. Go to the next step. This plane depends on the options that were previously checked.

	- **If the WDBal messaging must be used**, specify:

		- the name of message sender (and the associated password if necessary). This name must correspond to the name of a contributor found in the database of Control Centers.

		- the default recipients. The name specified in the table must correspond to the name of a contributor found in the database of Control Centers.
						Remark: You will have the ability to add new recipients from the monitor.

		- the parameters for accessing the database of Control Centers:

			- directory of the database if the files use a network share.

			- characteristics of the HFSQL Client/Server database (server, port, database).




- **If an email must be sent**, specify:

	- the email address of sender. This address is the one displayed in the email.

	- the characteristics of the SMTP server that will be used to send the messages: server, port, user and associated password (these characteristics are supplied by the Internet provider).

	- the email addresses of default recipients.
						Remark: You will have the ability to add new recipients from the monitor.

5. Specify the Windows account (and the associated password) used to create the scheduled task that will start the counter-robot. Caution: this account must have the management rights to perform this operation. If a domain is used, specify the domain name. 
	**Remark**: If names of domain are used, the three programs (robot, counter-robot and monitor) must be installed on the same domain.
	Go to the next step.  

6. The setup is completed. Validate. The counter-robot is configured.




Remark: To run the configuration wizard again, add the /CONFIG parameter in the command line and start the counter-robot.
For example: 
```txt
C:\Program Files (x86)\PC SOFT\Robot controller\RobotController.exe /CONFIG
```


You can [install a monitor](../RobotMonitor/3541102.md).


