
## Check: Test of a WLanguage code
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000099"></a>
The monitoring robot is used to compile and run the WLanguage code entered.

The check will be:

- successful if the WLanguage code was compiled and if it returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.

- unsuccessful otherwise.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Parameters specific to the WLanguage test
<a name="parameters_specific_the_wlanguage_test_ELTTEXTE000123"></a>


### WLanguage code
<a name="wlanguage_code_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

Enter the WLanguage code used to run the requested test. This code is automatically compiled and the compilation errors (if they exist) are displayed in the bottom section of the screen.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

- The WLanguage code typed must necessarily return <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> at run time to be considered as being valid.

- A specific status report can be specified via the [[STATUSREPORT]] variable. This status report will be included in the error report.

- The "Test" button is used to directly check the WLanguage code. If the [[STATUSREPORT]] variable was used, its content is displayed during the test.

- The monitoring robot supports the Unicode strings at runtime. Therefore, all the strings declared in the WLangage code are [Unicode strings](../Motscles/1514044.md) by default. When a check must exchange data with another process (via sockets, exchange files, ...), it may be necessary to declare the strings in ANSI if the other process is compiled to support strings in ANSI format. In this case, you must specify that the string is an ANSI string (declaration such as: MyString is Ansi string). 





