
## Installing the monitoring robot
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>
The monitoring robot includes three executables.

The first executable to install is the **executable corresponding to the robot**. The monitoring robot is always started on a computer and it runs all the requested tests. It must be installed on a computer that is never turned off.

The second executable is the [robot controller (or counter-robot)](../RobotMonitor/3541102.md). **Its setup is optional**. The counter-robot is an additional security tool. It is used to check whether the monitoring robot operates properly. If it is installed, the counter-robot must be installed on a computer that will never be switched off, different from the setup computer of the monitoring robot.  

The third executable is the [robot monitor](../RobotMonitor/3541103.md). The monitor can be installed on any computer. It is used to edit the tests and the different parameters of the robot.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Wizard for installing the monitoring robot
<a name="wizard_for_installing_the_monitoring_robot_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>


### Installing the robot
<a name="installing_the_robot_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

To install the monitoring robot: 

1. Launch the installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) on the computer where the robot is to be installed. Reminder: The installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) can be found in the "Install\\Robot" subdirectory of the IDE used.

2. In the setup wizard, accept the terms of license agreement and go to the next step. 

3. Select "Install the monitoring robot" and go to the next step.

4. Select the setup directory of the monitoring robot. Go to the next step.  

5. The setup is completed. Validate. The monitoring robot is installed. All you have to do now is configure the monitoring robot.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuring the monitoring robot
<a name="configuring_the_monitoring_robot_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

Once the monitoring robot is installed, a wizard is automatically displayed to configure the monitoring robot.

1. Specify the robot name. This name will be used in the different status reports and messages sent. We advise you to use a name that can be easily identified. Go to the next step.

2. Specify whether a counter-robot will be deployed. The counter-robot is used to regularly check the activity of the monitoring robot. The setup of a counter-robot is not mandatory but it is an additional security.
	If a counter-robot must be installed, specify the name of the computer where the counter-robot will be installed.
	Go to the next plane.

3. Select the alert options of the monitoring robot. These options will be used by default for all the tests run by the monitoring robot. You can:

	- use the internal messaging of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile: WDBal. This option assumes that the database of the Control Centers is accessible from the computer of the monitoring robot.

	- send the messages by email. This option assumes that the computer of the monitoring robot can access an email server.

	- use another program, that will perform a specific process of the messages. This other program must be accessible from the computer of the monitoring robot.
			If none of these options was selected, the only alert will be a sound and visual alert on the monitor.
			These options can be modified at any time from the monitor.




4. Go to the next plane. This plane depends on the options that were previously checked.

	- **If the WDBal messaging must be used**, specify:

		- the name of message sender (and the associated password if necessary). This name must correspond to the name of a contributor found in the database of Control Centers.

		- the default recipients. The name specified in the table must correspond to the name of a contributor found in the database of Control Centers.
						Remark: New recipients can be added for each test.

		- the parameters for accessing the database of Control Centers: 

			- directory of the database if the files use a network share.

			- characteristics of the HFSQL Client/Server database (server, port, database).




- **If an email must be sent**, specify:

	- the email address of sender. This address is the one displayed in the email.

	- the characteristics of the SMTP server that will be used to send the messages: server, port, user and associated password (these characteristics are supplied by the Internet provider).

	- the email addresses of default recipients.
						Remark: New recipients can be added for each test.

5. Specify the Windows account (and the associated password) used to create the scheduled task that will start the monitoring robot. Caution: this account must have the management rights to perform this operation.
	If a domain is used, specify the domain name.
	**Remark**: If names of domain are used, the three programs (robot, counter-robot and monitor) must be installed on the same domain.
	Go to the next plane.  

6. Specify the name of the shared directory ("MyRobot" for example) that will allow the monitors (installed on other computers) and/or the counter-robot to access the test data. This directory will be created on the current computer and automatically shared.

7. The setup is completed. Validate. The setting of the monitoring robot is performed.




You can:

- [install the counter-robot (optional)](../RobotMonitor/3541102.md).

- [install a monitor](../RobotMonitor/3541102.md).





