
## WDStatistic: Importing log files
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000115"></a>
To view the statistics about the site traffic with WDStatistic, the log files must be imported onto the current computer.

This import can be done:

- **manually**:
	This solution is recommended:

	- to occasionally view the statistics about the site traffic.

	- when the directory containing log files is directly accessible from the current computer (Intranet site for instance).




- **automatically**:
	This import is recommended when you want to follow the statistics about the site traffic on a regular basis.




Before starting to import the log files, you must configure the information about the site whose statistics are requested.
To configure a site, all you have to do is start WDStatistics and click the "Site management" button.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Importing the log files manually
<a name="importing_the_log_files_manually_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
To import a log file manually:

1. Start WDStatistic (double-click "WDStatistic.EXE"). 

2. Configure how the log files will be imported by clicking the "Managing the sites" button (via WebDep, FTP or a path). 

3. Click the "Import" button. The window used to configure the import is displayed.

4. Select the site whose log files must be imported.

5. Enter the date from which you want to start importing the log files.

6. Click the "Start an import now" button.

7. WDStatistic displays the statistics regarding the imported log files.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Importing the log files automatically
<a name="importing_the_log_files_automatically_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>


### Configuring the automatic import of log files
<a name="configuring_the_automatic_import_log_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

To configure the automatic import of log files:

1. Start WDStatistic (double-click "WDStatistic.EXE").

2. Click the "Import" button. The window for configuring the import is displayed.

3. Select the site for which the import of log files must be automated.

4. Check "Schedule the import of logs".

5. Specify the frequency for the import (occasionally, daily, weekly or monthly).

6. Specify the startup information (date and time).

7. Validate the window.




### Important note
<a name="important_note_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

The automatic import of log files is based on the mechanism of schedule tasks of Microsoft Windows.
Therefore, it is very important to carefully specify the information regarding the Windows user of the computer and the password associated with the account.
Without this information, you will not be able to automatically schedule the import of log files.



