
## Installing the monitor
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
The monitoring robot includes three executables.

The first executable to install is [the executable corresponding to the robot](../RobotMonitor/3541101.md). The monitoring robot is always started on a computer and it runs all the requested tests. It must be installed on a computer that is never turned off.

The second executable is the [robot controller (or counter-robot)](../RobotMonitor/3541102.md). **Its setup is optional**. The counter-robot is an additional security tool. It is used to check whether the monitoring robot operates properly. If it is installed, the counter-robot must be installed on a computer that will never be switched off, different from the setup computer of the monitoring robot.  

The third executable is the **monitor of robots**. The monitor can be installed on any computer. It is used to edit the tests and the different parameters of the robot.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Monitor setup wizard
<a name="monitor_setup_wizard_ELTTEXTE000140"></a>


### Installing the monitor
<a name="installing_the_monitor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

To install the monitor:

1. Launch the installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) on the computer where the monitor is to be installed. The setup wizard starts. 
	Reminder: The installation package (WX280PACKROBOT.EXE) can be found in the "Install\\Robot" subdirectory of the IDE used.

2. Validate the license.

3. Select "Install the monitor of robots" and go to the next step.

4. Select the setup directory of the monitor of robots. Go to the next step.  

5. The setup is completed. Validate. The monitor of robots is installed. All you have to do now is configure the monitor of robots.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuring the monitor of robots
<a name="configuring_the_monitor_robots_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

Once the monitor is installed, a configuration wizard opens automatically.

1. Go to the next step.

2. Specify the location of the monitoring robot database. This database can be: 

	- An HFSQL Client/Server database. In this case, indicate: 

		- the server address, port,

		- the associated username and password,

		- the database to use. 




- An HFSQL Classic database, located in a shared directory. This directory corresponds to the shared directory created on the computer where the robot was installed. 

3. Go to the next step.

4. Select the alert options of the monitor. These options correspond to the alert triggered on the monitor if an error occurs. You can:

	- use a visual alert.

	- use a sound alert.




5. Go to the next step. Validate. The setting of the monitor is performed.




You have the ability to create tests.


