
## Monitoring robot: Configuring the counter-robot parameters
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000149"></a>
From the monitor, you can change the configuration options:

- of the robot,

- of the counter-robot,

- of the monitor.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the counter-robot parameters
<a name="configuring_the_counterrobot_parameters_ELTTEXTE000173"></a>
The counter-robot parameters correspond to the parameters specified in the wizard for configuring the counter-robot.

**To display the counter-robot parameters**: 

1. In the menu of the monitor, go to the "Settings" group, select "Configure" and then "Parameters of the counter-robot".

2. A window is opened, displaying the counter-robot characteristics:

	- Name, Computer.

	- Alert options.







<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Alert options
<a name="alert_options_ELTTEXTE000197"></a>


### Alert by WDBal
<a name="alert_wdbal_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

The "WDBal" tab is used to configure the sending of error reports via the PC SOFT messaging named WDBal. To use this mode of alert message, the database of Control Centers must be accessible from the computer where the counter-robot is installed.

The "Configuring WDBal" section is used to define the access mode to the data of Control Centers:

- In network share mode: directory of the data files.

- In HFSQL Client/Server mode: 

	- server used, port and database.

	- user and password. 







You can define the default recipient(s) of the message sent via the messaging system ("Define recipients") in "Contributors". The recipients shown are the users who have enabled WDBal. 
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Alert by email
<a name="alert_email_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

The "Email" tab is used to configure the sending of error reports by email. To use this mode of alert message, an SMTP server must be accessible from the computer where the counter-robot is installed.

The "Email settings" section allows you to define the characteristics of the SMTP server used:

- SMTP server and port

- User and associated password to use the SMTP server.

- Type of security used. 




The "Contributors" section allows you to define:

- The sender of the message, i.e. the email address used as sender.

- The default recipients of the message sent. Simply specify the email addresses of the recipients.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Using a specific program
<a name="using_specific_program_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

The "Other program" tab allows you to send error reports via a specific program. To use this mode of alert message, specify the path of the desired executable. This executable must be accessible from the setup computer of the counter-robot. 

In this mode, the error report is an XML file. The path of the error report will be passed in command line to the specific program and it will have to be processed by this program.

The format of the XML file is as follows:


```xml
<Test>
<TestNumber>%1</TestNumber>
<TestName>%2</TestName>
<TestCategory>%3</TestCategory>
<TestPriority>%4</TestPriority>
<TestSyntax>
%5
</TestSyntax>
<TestSolution>
%6
</TestSolution>
<ErrorDate>%7</ErrorDate>
<ErrorTime>%8</ErrorTime>
<CustomErrorMessage>
%9
</CustomErrorMessage>
<ErrorMessage>
%10
</ErrorMessage>
</Test>
<Test>
...
</Test>
```


In this code:

- %1 = Number identifying the test

- %2 = Name of the test

- %3 = Name of the test category

- %4 = Priority of the test

- %5 = Syntax of the test (associated parameters)

- %6 = Solution proposed for the test

- %7 = Date of the error

- %8 = Time of the error

- %9 = Error message specified in the form of the test

- %10 = Error message returned by the robot



<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Configuring the status report
<a name="configuring_the_status_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

The "Configuring the status report" tab is used to configure the subject of the message sent (by email or by WDBal).

The "Object of email sent" section is used to build the title of the message. Macros are used to get specific information (name of the counter-robot, ...).


