
## Check: Activity of an application
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000115"></a>
The monitoring robot proposes to check the activity of a WINDEV application.

In this case, the robot will check the activity of the application by reading the date and the time found in a .INI file. This INI file is an activity file, regularly filled by the WINDEV application that is checked. The activity can also be read in the robot's database (e.g. to test the activity of the robot or a counter-robot). 

The check will be:

- successful if the date and the time read do not exceed the alert timeout.

- unsuccessful otherwise.




**Remark**: The file to check can be a file found on an FTP server.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Parameters specific to the check regarding the activity of an application
<a name="parameters_specific_the_check_regarding_the_activity_application_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>


### Application details
<a name="application_details_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

These parameters concern the WINDEV application to check. You must specify:

- the name of the computer where the application is installed (computer accessible by the robot).

- the name of the WINDEV application.

- the timeout before the alert. This is the maximum time allowed between the date and time specified in the INI file and the date and time of the test.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Information about activity
<a name="information_about_activity_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

There are three ways to test the activity of the application: 

- INI file in network: These parameters affect the INI file used to check the activity of the application. In this case, you must specify:

	- the name of the directory where the INI file is installed (computer accessible by the robot).

	- the name of the INI file.

	- the section that must be read in the INI file.

	- the name of keyword containing the date and time in YYYYMMDDHHmmSS format.




- INI file by FTP: The INI file of the application can be accessible on an FTP server. In this case, you must specify the characteristics of the FTP server to use:

	- the address of the FTP server.

	- the port number of the server and the connection mode (passive or not).

	- the user and the associated password.




- Robot database: These parameters can also be stored in the robot's database, in the "ApplicationActivity" data file . In this case, you must specify the application identifier.  



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Application restart information
<a name="application_restart_information_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

This information is used to try to restart the WINDEV application. If "Restart enabled" is checked, you can specify: 

- the maximum number of restart attempts. 

- the username and password. The application will be restarted with this information. 

- the application path and the command line if necessary. 





