


## UndockablePane (Property)

***In french: VoletDétachable***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **UnlockablePane** property is used to: 

- Determine if the end user can move the panes of a Ribbon or Dynamic Tab control outside the window. 

- Allow or prevent the end user from moving the panes of a Ribbon or Dynamic Tab control outside the window. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
TAB_Dynamic.UndockablePane = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Determining if all the panes of a Ribbon or Dynamic Tab control can be undocked

`<Result> = <Control used>.UndockablePane`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if all the panes of the control can be undocked,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the panes of the control cannot be undocked. 




**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: 

- Tab control, 

- Ribbon control.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Allowing or preventing all the panes of a Ribbon or Dynamic Tab control from being undocked

`<Control used>.UndockablePane = <Undockable or not>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: 

- Tab control, 

- Ribbon control.




**`<Undockable or not>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if all the panes of the control should be undockable,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the panes of the control should not be undockable. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If the pane is undockable, it can be detached by Drag and Drop from the pane button outside the button area. 

- An undocked pane can be re-docked by dragging it and dropping it into the button area of the Tab or Ribbon control.

- If the Tab control has horizontal or vertical anchors, the free window can be resized. 

- If the [WithClosingButton](../Proprietes/1000021374.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>, the free window cannot be closed. 





