
## TitleColor (Property)

***In french: CouleurTitre***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **TitleColor** property is used to: 

- get the text color of a column title in a Table or TreeView Table control.

- set the text color of the title of one or all columns in a Table or TreeView Table control.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF bVIPCustomer THEN
	COL_Note.TitleColor = LightRed
ELSE
	COL_Note.TitleColor = DefaultColor
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Getting the text color of a column title in a Table or TreeView Table control

`<Result> = <Element used>.TitleColor`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer constant)`**

Color currently used for the text of the title for the specified column. For more details, see [WLanguage preset color](../WDLang5/3010002.md). 

**`<Element used>: (Control name)`**



- Name of the column to be used. 

- Table control name. In this case, only the first column of the Table control is taken into account. 

- Name of TreeView Table Control. In this case, only the first column of the TreeView Table control is taken into account.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Setting the text color of the title of one or all columns in a Table or TreeView Table control

`<Element used>.TitleColor = <New color>`
---

**`<Element used>: (Control name)`**



- Name of the column to be used.

- Name of the Table control (to set the color of the title of all the columns). 

- Name of the TreeView Table control (to set the color of the title of all the columns). 




**`<New color>: (Integer or Integer constant)`**

New color for the title text. This parameter can correspond to one of the following options: 

- an RGB color (returned by [RGB](../WDLang1/3029012.md)),

- an HSL color (returned by [HSL](../WDLang1/3029057.md)),

- [a WLanguage preset color](../WDLang5/3010002.md).

- the *ColorDefault* constant. In this case, the column title will use the color common to all the columns (which means the color defined in the style of the Table control).







