
## FontMinSize (Property)

***In french: PoliceTailleMin***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **FontMinSize** property is used to get and change the minimum size of the font used in a Static control with the "Reduce font size" option ("Details" tab of the Static control description window). 

Reminder: This option allows you to reduce the font size to allow long text to be displayed in full in the Static control. The minimum font can also be specified in the "Details" tab of the Static control description. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Set minimum font size
STC_MyTitle.FontMinSize = 8
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out the minimum size of the font used in a Static control

`<Result> = <Static control>.FontMinSize`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- 0 if this feature is not enabled (default value). In this case, the font is not reduced. 

- Minimum font size. This size is expressed in the unit specified for the element (returned by the [SizeUnit](../Proprietes/1410088365.md) property). 




**`<Static control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Static control to be used.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Changing the minimum size of the font used in a Static control

`<Static control>.FontMinSize = <Font size>`
---

**`<Static control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Static control to be used.

**`<Font size>: (Integer)`**



- 0 to disable the feature. In this case, the font is not reduced. 

- Minimum font size. This size is expressed in the unit specified for the element (returned by the [SizeUnit](../Proprietes/1410088365.md) property). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- This property has no effect on RTF Static controls.

- If the text is too long, an ellipsis is displayed. 

- The maximum font size is given by the [FontSize](../Proprietes/2510072.md) property. 

- The size is expressed in the unit specified for the element (returned by the [SizeUnit](../Proprietes/1410088365.md) property). 





