
## SelectionIfReadOnly (Property)

***In french: SélectionEnAffichage***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **SelectionIfReadOnly** property is used to determine and specify if the content of an Edit control can be selected when in read-only mode.

**Remark**: This property corresponds to the "Selection in read-only" option in the "Details" tab of the Edit control description window. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
EDT_Date.SelectionIfReadOnly = False
EDT_Date.State = Inactive
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out whether the content of an Edit control can be selected when in read-only mode

`<Result> = <Edit control>.SelectionIfReadOnly`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the content of an Edit control can be selected when in read-only mode,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. 




**`<Edit control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Edit control to be used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Indicating whether the content of an Edit control can be selected when in read-only mode

`<Edit control>.SelectionIfReadOnly = <New value>`
---

**`<Edit control>: (Control name)`**

Name of edit control to use.

**`<New value>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the content of an Edit control can be selected when in read-only mode,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Details
<a name="details_ELTPARAGRAPHE000057"></a>

- By default, the **SelectionIfReadOnly** property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 

- If the **SelectionIfReadOnly** property is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> and if the Edit control is read-only, clicking on the control will have no effect.

- If the control is grayed out, the **SelectionIfReadOnly** property is ignored. 

- If the control is enabled, the **SelectionIfReadOnly** property is ignored. 





