


## StoreTheConfiguration (Property)

***In french: MémoriserLaConfiguration***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **StoreTheConfiguration** property is used to: 

- Determine whether the configuration of the panes in a dynamic Tab control or Ribbon control is automatically saved and restored. 

- Modify the configuration of the panes in a dynamic Tab control or Ribbon control so that it is automatically saved and restored (or not)




Remark:  This property corresponds to the "Remember configuration of tabs" option in the "Details" tab of the control description window. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
TAB_Dynamic.StoreTheConfiguration = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out whether the configuration of the panes is automatically stored and restored

`<Result> = <Control used>.StoreTheConfiguration`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the configuration of the control panes is automatically saved and restored,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the configuration of the control panes is not automatically saved and restored. 




**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: 

- Dynamic Tab control. 

- Ribbon control.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Configuring the saving of the panes

`<Control used>.StoreTheConfiguration = <New configuration>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: 

- Dynamic tab control. 

- Ribbon control.




**`<New configuration>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the configuration of the control panes is automatically saved and restored,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the configuration of the control panes is not automatically saved and restored. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If this property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> after the initialization step, the previous configuration will not be restored in the control.

- This property is useful to configure the controls created by [ControlCreate](../WDLang1/1000020876.md) and [ControlClone](../WDLang1/3025017.md).

- For a dynamic Tab control, the configuration includes the dynamic panes and their position (i.e. their order). 

	- "Undocked" dynamic panes will still be undocked when restored, with the same size and position.

	- If the internal window accepts simple parameters (strings, integer, boolean), they are stored.

	- If the internal window accepts complex parameters (objects, HFSQL connections, ...), the backup is not performed.

	- If the internal window is using global variables (the position of a record for example), the restore operation will not give the same result as the backup.




- For a Ribbon control, the configuration includes the panes and their position (i.e. their order). "Undocked" panes will still be undocked when restored, with the same size and position.

- Dynamic Tab control: You can manually save or restore the configuration of the dynamic panes using [TabSaveConfiguration](../WDLang1/1000021371.md)/[TabLoadConfiguration](../WDLang1/1000021370.md). 





