


## HTMLClass (Property)

***In french: ClasseHTML***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **HTMLClass** property is used to read and change the value of the "class" HTML attribute of the control. 

Remark: The value of the HTML "class" attribute is used to select the CSS styles applied to the control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Applies a CSS to style the control if an error occurs
// and systematically targets the control to apply an auto-completion JS
IF Position(EDT_Edit, "@") = -1 THEN
    EDT_Edit.HTMLClass = "InputInError ui-autocomplete"
ELSE
    EDT_Edit.HTMLClass = "InputValid ui-autocomplete"
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Reading the value of the "class" attribute

`<Result> = <Control used>.HTMLClass`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Value of the "class" attribute. If this attribute contains several values, the different values are separated by spaces. 

Remark: At runtime, the initial value of the "class" attribute corresponds to the concatenation of values defined during editing (with the space character as separator) in the control description window.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the value of the "class" attribute

`<Control used>.HTMLClass = <New value>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. 

**`<New value>: (Character string)`**

New value for the "class" attribute. If this attribute contains several values, the different values are separated by spaces. 
Caution: 

- This parameter is case-sensitive. 

- The existing content of the "class" attribute is overwritten with the new value. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- No check is performed on the value. In HTML, all the characters are allowed. If an invalid value is assigned, the browser will probably display the page with errors.

- The "class" attribute in HTML also includes a specific content added by WEBDEV to define the style and make sure that the control works properly. This additional content cannot be accessed by the **HTMLClass** property.





