


## Address (Property)

***In french: Adresse***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **Address** property is used to:

- Establish a connection between the Conference control (and the associated stream) and the receiver. This property is equivalent to [StreamConnect](../WDLang3/3039008.md).

- Get the address of the last outgoing connection request.




From version 20, Conference controls are supported in Windows Vista and later. If you want to use the Conference control with an earlier Windows version: 

1. Open the control description window. 

2. In the "UI" tab, select "Use the TAPI 3.x APIs / Windows XP
(for compatibility)".

3. Validate. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Connect stream to receiver
CONF_Conference1.Address = "123.101.7.56"
IF CONF_Conference1 <> 0 THEN Info("Communication established")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the address of the last connection

`<Result> = <Conference control>.Address`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Address of the last outgoing connection request. This address can be:

- An IP address in XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX format (125.5.110.100 for example).

- An IP address containing the name of the server (pop3.freesbee.com for example).




**`<Conference control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Conference control associated with the stream.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Connecting the stream to the receiver

`<Conference control>.Address = <Receiver address>`
---

**`<Conference control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Conference control associated with the stream.

**`<Receiver address>: (Character string)`**

New address of the receiver. This address can be:

- An IP address in XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX format (125.5.110.100 for example).

- An IP address containing the name of the server (pop3.freesbee.com for example). This syntax is recommended.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
To know if the connection was established successfully, you can:

- check the value of the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable.

- check the value of the Conference control ([Value](../Proprietes/2510130.md) property). If &lt;Conference control&gt;.Value = 0, then the connection failed.





