


## DisplayedItemImage (Property)

***In french: RubriqueAffichéeImage***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **DisplayedItemImage** property is used to:

- Get the item that corresponds to the image displayed in a ListView control.

- Change the item that corresponds to the image displayed in a ListView control.


Remark: This item can come from a data file, a view or a query.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Modify the item displayed in the "LSV_CustomerList" control
LSV_CustomerList.DisplayedItemImage = Customer.Photo
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the item that corresponds to the image displayed

`<Displayed item> = <ListView control>.DisplayedItemImage`
---

**`<Displayed item>: (Character string)`**

Name of item corresponding to the image displayed in the ListView control.

**`<ListView control>: (Control name)`**

Name of ListView control to use.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Changing the item that corresponds to the image displayed 

`<ListView control>.DisplayedItemImage = <New item>`
---

**`<ListView control>: (Control name)`**

Name of ListView control to use.

**`<New item>: (Character string)`**

Name of new item that will be used to display the image of ListView control. This item must belong to the data file browsed by the control (returned or modified by the [BrowsedFile](../Proprietes/2510040.md) property).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Image and caption
<a name="image_and_caption_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

The **DisplayedItemImage** property is used to get and change only the item that corresponds to the images displayed in the control.

To get and change the item that corresponds to the captions of the elements displayed in the control, use the [DisplayedItem](../Proprietes/2510123.md) property.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Handling the ListView controls via the properties 
<a name="handling_the_listview_controls_via_the_properties_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

- The records displayed in a browsing ListView control come from the data file or from the query specified by the [BrowsedFile](../Proprietes/2510040.md) property.

- The sort direction is defined by the [BrowsedItem](../Proprietes/2510111.md) property.

- The records can be filtered using the [Filter](../Proprietes/2510042.md) property or the [HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md) function.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Limit
<a name="limit_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

The **DisplayedItemImage** property applies only to ListView controls.


