


## NbLinesPerPage (Property)

***In french: NbLignesParPage***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **NbLinesPerPage** property is used to:

- Get and set the maximum number of Table rows per page.

- Get and set the maximum number of Looper rows per page. 
	Caution: if the Looper control has multiple columns, the **NbLinesPerPage** property corresponds to the maximum total number of occurrences displayed in the Looper control (number of columns multiplied by the number of rows).




**Reminder**: The number of rows per page is the maximum number of rows from a Table or Looper control that can be displayed in a page. This option is used to optimize the size of pages. This number is defined in the control description:

- For Looper controls: "General" tab of the control description.

- For Table controls: "Details" tab of the control description.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Displays 20 rows of the Looper control on a page
LOOP_Looper1.NbLinesPerPage = 20
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the maximum number of rows per page

`<Number of rows> = <Control used>.NbLinesPerPage`
---

**`<Number of rows>: (Integer)`**

Maximum number of rows currently defined.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control used: Table control or Looper control.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the maximum number of rows per page

`<Control used>.NbLinesPerPage = <New number of rows>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control used: Table control or Looper control. 

**`<New number of rows>: (Integer)`**

Maximum number of rows per page. This number must not be equal to 0.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- There is no need to call [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) or [LooperDisplay](../WDLang2/3083001.md) to take into account the new maximum number of rows per page.

- This property has no effect if the Looper and/or Table control is in Ajax mode.

- This property is not available for TreeView Table controls. 





