


## LabelNumberToStart (Property)

***In french: NumEtiquetteDeDépart***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **LabelNumberToStart** property is used to:

- Find out the number of the label on the label sheet from which the print will be performed.

- Modify the number of the label from which the print will be performed on the label sheet.




This property enables you to print on a label sheet on which a previous print was already performed. The print will start from the label whose number is specified.

**Remark**: This property must be used in the opening code of the report.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// -- Opening code of the report
// Prints from the label #6 of the page
RPT_CustLabel.LabelNumberToStart = 6
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the number of the label from which the print will start

`<Result> = <Report used>.LabelNumberToStart`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Number of the label from which the print will start. This number is given according to the label sheet used (the labels are numbered from left to right and from top to bottom). 
The print starts from label #1 by default.

**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of "Label" report to use.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the number of the label from which the print will start

`<Report used>.LabelNumberToStart = <New number>`
---

**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of "Label" report to use.

**`<New number>: (Integer)`**

Number of the label from which the print will start. This number must be given according to the label sheet used (the labels are numbered from left to right and from top to bottom).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

The **LabelNumberToStart** property must be used in the opening process of the report. For example, you can pass the number of the first label to print as parameter to the report when starting the print.

This property only applies to the prints performed on a label sheet.

This property cannot be used if the report contains a page header and a page footer.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Limit
<a name="limit_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

The **LabelNumberToStart** property applies only to "Label" reports.


