


## PageByPagePrint (Property)

***In french: ImpressionAChaquePage***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **PageByPagePrint** property is used to:

- Ask a report to be printed page by page. Each page of the report will be sent separately to the printer spooler. This option is used to reduce the size of the print spooler for example.

- Find out the print mode of the report (page by page or all at once).




**Remark**: To print a report page-by-page, you can also check "Send each page separately to the printer" in the "Options" tab of the report description window.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Print the report page by page
RPT_ReportName.PageByPagePrint = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the print mode of the report

`<Result> = <Report used>.PageByPagePrint`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the report is printed page by page, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the report to be used.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Asking for a report to be printed page by page

`<Report used>.PageByPagePrint = <Print mode>`
---

**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the report to be used.

**`<Print mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the report is printed page by page, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the report is entirely printed.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### In which WLanguage event is it possible to use the PageByPagePrint property?
<a name="which_wlanguage_event_possible_use_the_docparampagetitleshort_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000078"></a>

It is recommended to use the **PageByPagePrint** property in the report "Opening" event . In other events associated with the report, this property will be ignored.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Limit: Calculated control that is using the total number of report pages
<a name="limit_calculated_control_that_using_the_total_number_report_pages_ELTPARAGRAPHE000089"></a>

The report should not be printed page by page if this report contains a "Number of pages" calculated control. Indeed, the report must be entirely run in order to calculate the number of pages. If a page-by-page print is nevertheless requested, the number of pages will be replaced by "...".


