


## FutureHeight (Property)

***In french: HauteurFuture***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **FutureHeight** property is used to determine how high an auto-resizing control in a report will be after being enlarged. This property is mainly used to increase the size of a control located beside an auto-resizing control (in a form report for example).

Reminder: the current height of a control is returned by [Height](../Proprietes/2510050.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// If the control is going to be resized before it is printed
IF MyControl.Height < MyControl.FutureHeight THEN
	// Resize its neighbor
	NeighborControl.Height = MyControl.FutureHeight
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Future height> = <Control used>.FutureHeight`
---

**`<Future height>: (Integer)`**

Height of the control (including the border) expressed in millimeters when this control is enlarged.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the auto-resizing control to use.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Caution: mode for calculating the future height
<a name="caution_mode_for_calculating_the_future_height_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

The future height of an auto-resizing control is calculated based on the content of the control at the time the **FutureHeight** property is called. 
Therefore, if the property is called in the "Before printing" event of the body block, the future height of one of the controls in the body block will ignore the assignments performed through programming in the control "Before printing" event.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Limits
<a name="limits_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

- This property only applies to auto-sizable controls found in reports. A control is auto-resizing if the "Auto-resizing" option is checked in the control description window ("UI" tab). 

- This property does not apply to RTF controls.





