


## OperationLogDirectory (Property)

***In french: RépertoireJournalOpération***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **OperationLogDirectory** property is used to manage the directory of the operation log file associated with a data file. You can:

- Find out the directory of operation log linked to a log data file defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define the directory of the operation log for a data file (when describing the file through programming).




**Reminder**: The log operations file (JournalOpération.fic) and the identification file of log files (JournalIdentification.fic) are not created by default when a data file is logged. These files are automatically created when a data file is logged in read-only or when replication is implemented on a data file.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Defines the directory of operation log
// for the Orders data file (described through programming)
Orders.OperationLogDirectory = "C:\MyFiles\Operations"
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Orders)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the directory of the operations file of a log data file

`<Current directory> = <Data file>.OperationLogDirectory`
---

**`<Current directory>: (Character string)`**



- Name of directory of the "JournalOpération.fic" file associated with the log data file, 

- "." if the directory corresponds to the current directory.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

(Logical) name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the directory of the operations file for a log data file described through programming

`<Data file>.OperationLogDirectory = <New directory>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

(Logical) name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<New directory>: (Character string)`**

Name of directory of the "JournalOpération.fic" file associated with the log data file.  




