


## VisibleEndUser (Property)

***In french: VisibleUtilisateurFinal***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **VisibleEndUser** property is used to:

- Find out whether an item is visible (or not) to the end users. This item was defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define if an item must be visible to the end users (only when the item is described through programming).




When the item is visible to the end users:

- this item can be accessed in [Reports & Queries](../Presentation/3088003.md). The end users will be able to use this item in their own custom reports and queries.

- the values of this item can be modified in the different [HFSQL windows for automatic assistance](../WDLang4/3044188.md) (if a duplicate error occurs for example). 




**Remark**: The visibility of an item is defined in the editor when describing the file items ("Visible to the end user" option).






<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the visibility of the Orders.OrdDate item
OrdDate.VisibleEndUser = True
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Orders)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out whether an item is visible to the end user

`Result> = <Data file>.<Item>.VisibleEndUser`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the item is visible to the end users, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used.

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the visibility of an item described through programming

`<Item>.VisibleEndUser = <Visibility>`
---

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used. This name was defined by the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.

**`<Visibility>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the item must be visible to the end users, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.  







