
## CtDescribedAccess (Property)

***In french: CxAccèsDécrit***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CtDescribedAccess** property is used to set the type of access to the data file when connecting to a specific table via OLE DB. You can:

- Get the type of access to the data file used to connect to a table via OLE DB. This type of access was described in the data model editor or when the data file was described through programming.
	Caution: The **CtDescribedAccess** property ignores any changes made with [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md).
	This property can be used for a data file defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define the type of access to the data file used for connecting to a table via OLE DB (when programmatically describing the data file only). This property is equivalent to the [CtAccess](../Proprietes/2512015.md) property. 




**Reminder**: [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md) is used to redefine one or more parameters of the OLE DB connection to a table. By default, the characteristics of the OLE DB connection are defined:

- in the data model editor during the description of the data file, 

- when the data file was described through programming.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Find out the type of access to the Customer data file
ResAccessType = Customer.CtDescribedAccess
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the type of access to the data file via OLE DB

`<Type of access> = <Data file>.CtDescribedAccess`
---

**`<Type of access>: (Constant)`**

Returns the type of access to the specified data file. 
This information was defined during the description of the data file (in the data model editor or through programming).


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *hORead* | The data file can be accessed in read-only. You only have the ability to read the records. No record can be added or deleted. |
| *hOReadWrite* | The data file can be accessed in read/write. You have the ability to read the records and to write new records. |



**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the type of access to the file via OLE DB

`<Data file>.CtDescribedAccess = <Type of access>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<Type of access>: (Constant)`**

Defines the type of access to the data file.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *hORead* | The data file can be accessed in read-only. You only have the ability to read the records. No record can be added or deleted. |
| *hOReadWrite* | The data file can be accessed in read/write. You have the ability to read the records and to write new records. |





<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The [CtAccess](../Proprietes/2512015.md) property is used to identify the type of access currently used for the OLE DB connection. This property can also be used to define the type of access used (when the data file is described through programming).


