


## CtUserName (Property)

***In french: CxUtilisateur***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CtUserName** property is used to set the username that will be used when connecting to a specific table via OLE DB. You can:

- Get the username that will be used for connecting to a table via OLE DB (name used in [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md)). This property can be used for a data file defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define the username that will be used for connecting to a table by OLE DB (when the data file is described through programming). In this case, this property is equivalent to the [CtDescribedUserName](../Proprietes/2512022.md) property. 




**Reminder**: [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md) is used to redefine one or more parameters of the OLE DB connection to a table. By default, the characteristics of the OLE DB connection are defined:

- in the data model editor during the description of the data file, 

- when the data file was described through programming.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the name of the user
Customer.CtUserName = "Julia"
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the name of the user (used in HConnect)

`<User> = <Data file>.CtUserName`
---

**`<User>: (Character string)`**

Name of the user of the OLE DB source defined during the connection by [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md).

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the name of the user (used in HConnect)

`<Data file>.CtUserName = <New username>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<New username>: (Character string)`**

Name of the user of the OLE DB source defined during the connection by [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The [CtDescribedUserName](../Proprietes/2512022.md) property is used to get and change the name of the user specified for the OLE DB connection when describing the data file.


