


## CtDescribedUserName (Property)

***In french: CxUtilisateurDécrit***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CtDescribedUserName** property is used to set the username that will be used when connecting to a specific table via OLE DB. You can:

- Find out the username that will be used for connecting a data file to a table by OLE DB (data file defined in the data model editor or through programming). This user name was specified during the description of the data file.

- Define the username that will be used for connecting a data file to a table by OLE DB (when the data file is described through programming). 




**Reminder**: [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md) is used to redefine one or more parameters of the OLE DB connection to a table. By default, the characteristics of the OLE DB connection are defined in the data model editor during the description of the data file.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the name of the user
Customer.CtDescribedUserName = "Julia"
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Customer)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the name of the user

`<User> = <Data file>.CtDescribedUserName`
---

**`<User>: (Character string)`**

Name of the user of the OLE DB source, defined during the file description in the data model editor.

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Define the name of the user

`<Data file>.CtDescribedUserName = <New username>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<New username>: (Character string)`**

Username of the OLE DB source.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The [CtUserName](../Proprietes/2512026.md) property is used to get and change the username specified for the OLE DB connection when using [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md).


