
## WDAdminHF: Managing the server
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000158"></a>
During the connection to the remote HFSQL administrator, you must specify the HFSQL server that will be taken into account. Then, the different options available on the selected server are listed. 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Details of available options
<a name="details_available_options_ELTTEXTE000188"></a>


### Databases
<a name="databases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000019"></a>

This option is used to select one of the databases found on the server. This gives you the ability to access all the options for [managing the database](../WDAdminHF/1000019702.md). 


### Connections
<a name="connections_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

This option lists the different users connected to the different databases found on the server.

The list of active connections contains the following information:

- the database name,

- the username,

- the computer name,

- the name of the application that accesses the database, ...




You have the ability to manage the connections from this page: allow or forbid the connections, disconnect the users or send a message to the users.


### Transactions
<a name="transactions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

This option is used to manage the current transactions or the interrupted transactions on the server.


### Users
<a name="users_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

This option is used to find out and manage the users of the server. You have the ability to create, modify or delete a user. 

When creating or modifying a user, the user can be a super user: users defined as "superusers" are allowed to perform all actions on the server, databases and data files.


### Groups
<a name="groups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

This option is used to find out and manage the groups of users of the server. You have the ability to create, modify or delete a group of users. 

You also have the ability to associate users with a group. 


### Rights
<a name="rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

This option is used to manage the rights on the server for the selected user or group.


### System information
<a name="system_information_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

This option is used to find out: 

- the server platform.

- the platform version.

- the architecture of the engine.

- the server processor.

- the available memory.

- the version of the elements on the server.





### Server configuration
<a name="server_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

This option is used to configure the server. The following elements are taken into account:

- Location of databases on the server ("General" option)

- Directory of logs and backups ("Logs" option)

- Log file ("Logs" option): you have the ability to specify the directory of the log files and to enable some backup options. You also have the ability to specify the maximum size for log file.

- System parameters ("System" option): listening port, user account of the server, port for remote debugging, ...

- Size of the index cache ("Caches" option). 
	Remark: in 32 bits, the size of index cache is limited to 1GB.

- Activity statistics ("Activity stat." option): The activity statistics are used to measure the server workload. You have the ability to enable the activity statistics ans to specify the backup directory.





### Logs
<a name="logs_ELTPARAGRAPHE000091"></a>

This option is used to view the server logs directly. This option is available only if the logs are enabled on the server.

You also have the ability to import the logs. 


### Backups
<a name="backups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

This option is used to perform and restore backups of the server and/or databases. For more details, see [Performing backups with the remote HFSQL administrator](../WDAdminHF/1000019704.md). 


### Scheduled tasks
<a name="scheduled_tasks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000106"></a>

This option is used to create, modify and deleted the scheduled tasks found on the server. For more details, see [Managing the scheduled tasks with the remote HFSQL administrator](../WDAdminHF/1000019705.md).  


