
## WDAdminHF: Managing a database
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>
The remote HFSQL administrator proposes a full management of the HFSQL Client/Server databases. 

**To display the characteristics of an HFSQL Client/Server database**: 

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server via the remote HFSQL administrator. 

2. Select "Databases". 

3. Select the requested database and click the "Access the selected database" link. 

4. The displayed options are the options available on the current database.  






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Details of available options
<a name="details_available_options_ELTTEXTE000207"></a>


### Files
<a name="files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

This option is used to get general information about the files found in the database: name, size, number of records. You also have the ability to delete the data file. 

By clicking the name of the data file, you have the ability to access the options for [managing the data files](../WDAdminHF/1000019703.md). 


### Connections
<a name="connections_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

This option lists the different users connected to the current database.

The list of active connections contains the following information:

- the username,

- the computer name,

- the name of the application that accesses the database, etc.




You have the ability to manage the connections from this page: allow or forbid the connections, disconnect the users or send a message to the users.


### Locks
<a name="locks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

This option is used to manage locks. The following information is displayed:

- the name of the data file onto which the lock is applied, 

- the number of the locked record, 

- the name of the user who is locking, 

- the name of the locking computer, 

- the IP address of the locking computer, 

- the name of the locking application, 

- the lock start date, 

- the lock duration.





### Backups
<a name="backups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

This option is used to perform and restore the backups of the data files. For more details, see [Performing backups with the remote HFSQL administrator](../WDAdminHF/1000019704.md). 


### Rights
<a name="rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

This option is used to manage the rights on the server for the selected user or group.


### Maintenance
<a name="maintenance_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

This option is used to reindex the data files found in the database.

To perform a maintenance operation on the data files of the database:

1. In the table, check the data files that must be processed. Specify (if necessary) the password of the files to process.

2. Select the reindex options: 

	- **Delete the inactive records (deleted or crossed)**
			If this option is selected, the crossed records are permanently deleted.
			Reminder: When a record is crossed, it is deleted logically and it can be retrieved later. The record is still found in the data file. Deleting the crossed records deletes these records permanently and optimizes the size of data file.

	- **Delete the damaged records**
			If this option is checked, the damaged records are automatically deleted.

	- **Density of the index**
			Corresponds to the density rate of indexes. This rate is set to 80 by default. 
			A higher rate increases the density of the index and reduces its size. In this case, the browses, searches, filters and queries are faster. The additions of records and the modifications of records may be slower.
			A smaller rate reduces the density of the index and increases its size. In this case, the browses, searches, filters and queries will be slower. The additions of records and the modifications of records will be faster.

	- **Character set**
			The character set of the data file is kept by default. However, a re-indexing operation can be performed by changing the character set of the data file. In this case, the new character set will be taken into account during the re-index operation. The sorts, the searches, ... on string keys (strings, characters, date and time) will be performed according to this character set.

	- **Attempt to retrieve data from the memo if it is damaged**
			If this option is selected, the reindex operation tries to retrieve the memo. Otherwise, the damaged records are retrieved without the associated memo.
			Caution: The memo may not be entirely retrieved. Check your data files.




3. Select the type of optimization to perform: 

	- **1. Check the indexes**: Checks the consistency between the index and the data files.

	- **2. Optimize the speed of indexes**(recalculate the statistics): Optimizes the indexes by calculating statistics on the indexes. These statistics are used to optimize the filters, the queries and the HFSQL views.
			Remark: The more the data file is modified, the less the statistics reflect the content of HFSQL data file. The more records the data file contains, the less the modification of a single record impacts the overall statistics.

	- **3. Reindex**: Optimizes the access to the records of the data file and re-calculates the statistics. All the crossed records are automatically deleted.

	- **4. Check the indexes and the memos**: Optimizes the entire data file, its index and its memos.








### Stored procedures
<a name="stored_procedures_ELTPARAGRAPHE000118"></a>

This option is used to find the sets of procedures and the stored procedures. You have the ability to delete a set of procedures if necessary. 


### Triggers
<a name="triggers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>

This option is used to view the triggers defined on the database and to add some if necessary. 


### Links
<a name="links_ELTPARAGRAPHE000128"></a>

This option is used to view the links defined on the database and to delete some if necessary. 


