


## Managing HFSQL Client/Server databases
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000353"></a>
The HFSQL Control Center allows you to fully manage HFSQL Client/Server databases.

**To display the characteristics of an HFSQL Client/Server database**:

1. Connect (if necessary) to an HFSQL server. For more details, see [Managing HFSQL Client/Server databases](../CCHF/35400013.md). 

2. In the tree structure of the Control Center, expand the server and its databases.

3. Double-click the name of the desired database.

4. A new tab corresponding to the name of the selected database is displayed. A ribbon and different tabs are used to manage the characteristics of HFSQL Client/Server database.




**Remark**: From the Control Center, the context menu of the database is used to:

- Disconnect. 

- Import an HFSQL Classic database. 

- Start the data synchronisation. 

- Duplicate the database. 

- Delete database. 

- Manage the rights on the database. 

- Repair system tables.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>


## Detailed characteristics of an HFSQL Client/Server database
<a name="detailed_characteristics_hfsql_clientserver_database_ELTTEXTE000383"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1B"></a>


### "General" tab
<a name="general_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

This option is used to get general information about the files found in the database: name, size, number of records.

By default, only the names of the data files are displayed. 

The context menu of the files is used to: 

- Display the file details. The displayed information is calculated and updated for the file. 

- Access the file. The file content is displayed in a new tab. 

- Optimize and repair the file. 




Remark: The " Hide backup directories " option shows only the directories containing the data files from the database. 

When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Files" group, are used to: 

- Access file: This option is used to open a new tab displaying the characteristics of the selected file. 

- View details: This option is used to display the details of selected files in the database tab. 

- Optimize and repair: This option is used to display the window for configuring the optimization and the repair of HFSQL files.

- Delete: This option deletes the selected files. 



<a name="NOTE2_2B"></a>


### "Connections" tab
<a name="connections_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000078"></a>

This tab lists the different users connected to the database.

The list of active connections contains the following information:

- the username,

- the computer name,

- the name of the application that accesses the database, etc.




When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Connections" group, are used to: 

- allow or forbid the connections, 

- disconnect the users, 

- send a message to the users.




The option "Don't display the connections of HFSQL Control Center (stated on this computer)" is used to only display the connections of users via the applications. 
<a name="NOTE2_3B"></a>


### "Scheduled elements" tab
<a name="scheduled_elements_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

This tab is used to create, modify and delete schedule operations for the database: 

- backups.

- tasks (stored procedures).

- optimization.

- refresh of materialized views. 




When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Scheduled elements" group, are used to: 

- create a new scheduling, 

- display the details of a scheduling,

- run a scheduling,

- delete a scheduling. 




For more details, see [Managing scheduled tasks](../CCHF/3540009.md).
<a name="NOTE2_4b"></a>


### "Backups" tab
<a name="backups_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>

This tab is used to perform and restore database backups. This tab lists the database backups: 

- currently run,

- ended. 




When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Backups" group, are used to: 

- create a new backup (hot or scheduled backup),

- restart a backup,

- restore a backup,

- delete a backup. 




For more details, see [Backups](../CCHF/3540006.md).
<a name="NOTE2_5b"></a>


### "Links" tab
<a name="links_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000145"></a>

This tab presents the information regarding the links between the data files found in the HFSQL Client/Server database.

The following information is displayed:

- Name of the link, 

- Name of source file,

- Source cardinality, 

- Name of destination file, 

- Destination cardinalities, 

- Integrity rule for deletion, 

- Integrity rule for modification. 




Remark: Links are created and edited in the data model editor. 
<a name="NOTE2_6B"></a>


### "Stored procedures" tab
<a name="stored_procedures_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000164"></a>

This tab lists the different sets of stored procedures and the stored procedures of current database.

When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Stored procedures" group, are used to: 

- Update the sets of stored procedures.

- Delete a set of stored procedures.




For more details, see [Stored procedures and queries](../WDLang4/3044360.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_7B"></a>


### "Triggers" tab
<a name="triggers_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000181"></a>

This tab lists the different triggers of the current database. You can get:

- The name of the trigger,

- The data files affected by the trigger,

- The stored procedure called when releasing the trigger,

- The HFSQL functions for releasing the trigger.

- The type of trigger (before/after)




The trigger can be enabled or disabled by clicking in the check box of the "Active" column.

When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Triggers" group, are used to: 

- create a new trigger.

- modify a trigger.

- delete a trigger.




For more details, see [Server triggers](../WDLang4/3044369.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_8B"></a>


### "Stored queries" tab
<a name="stored_queries_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000207"></a>

This tab lists the different stored queries and the stored procedures of the current database.

When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Stored queries" group, are used to delete a stored query.

For more details, see [Stored procedures and queries](../WDLang4/3044360.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_9B"></a>


### "Parameters" tab
<a name="parameters_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000221"></a>

This tab lists the different paramters of the current database.

The parameters are used to store:

- The date and time of the last user connection,

- The environment parameters of an application,

- The status report of a stored procedure,

- etc.




For each paramteter, you have the ability to find out:

- The parameter name,

- The parameter value.




When this tab is selected, additional options are displayed in the ribbon. These options, found in the "Parameters" group, are used to: 

- create a new parameter.

- modify a parameter.

- delete a parameter.




To handle the database parameters through programming, you have the ability to use [HSaveParameter](../WDLang4/1000017313.md), [HLoadParameter](../WDLang4/1000017314.md) and [HDeleteParameter](../WDLang4/1000017315.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_10B"></a>


### "Locks" tab
<a name="locks_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000257"></a>

This tab is used to manage the locks for all the data files of the current database. 

You can find out: 

- the name of the file onto which the lock is applied, 

- the number of the locked record, 

- the name of the user who is locking, 

- the name of the locking computer, 

- the IP address of the locking computer, 

- the name of the locking application, 

- the type of lock,

- the lock start date,

- the lock duration.




This information can be retrieved through programming with [HInfoLock](../WDLang4/3044307.md). 

To unlock a record from the HFSQL Control Center, you must disconnect the user who locked the record. 

To disconnect users:

1. Display the database pane (double-click its name in the tree structure). 

2. Click the "Connections" tab.

3. In the ribbon, in the "Connections" group, click "Disconnect users".

4. In the window that is displayed, check the users to disconnect.

5. Click "Disconnect the selected users".



<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Ribbon options
<a name="ribbon_options_ELTTEXTE000461"></a>
For the selected HFSQL Client/Server database, the ribbon proposes the following actions: 

- In the "SQL query" group: 

	- New query: This option is used to open a specific tab allowing you to perform a query on the current database.  

	- Open a query: This option is used to open a specific tab corresponding to a query that was run beforehand. 




- In the "Databases" group:

	- Import an HFSQL Classic database

	- Copy files from the server

	- Synchronizing the database

	- Duplicate database

	- Close connection to the database




- In the "Rights" group, the option "Management of rights" allows you to manage the rights granted to the users and to the groups on the database.






