
## Vocabulary linked to replication
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Vocabulary linked to replication
<a name="vocabulary_linked_replication_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
Before implementing the replication, you must be familiar with the vocabulary specific to the replication.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Databases
<a name="databases_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>
The replication distinguishes between two types of databases:

- **The master database**
	It is the reference database. All the updates are performed on this database:

	- modifications performed by the application run on this computer, 

	- modifications performed on the remote computers and transmitted by the replication.




- **The subscriber database**
	This remote database is identical to the "Master" database. The modifications performed by the remote computer are applied to this database. The replication transmits these modifications to the "master" database.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Types of replication
<a name="types_replication_ELTTEXTE000168"></a>
Two types of replication can be implemented:

- **Unidirectional replication**
	This type of replication consists in performing an update from the "Master" database to the "Subscriber" databases or from the "Subscriber" database to the "Master" database.

- **Bidirectional replication**
	This type of replication consists in performing an update from the "Master" database to the "Subscriber" databases and from the "Subscriber" databases to the "Master" database. 
	During the subscriber-master replication, the modifications performed on the subscriber computer since the last replication will be saved on the master computer. 
	During the master-subscriber replication, the modifications performed on the master computer since the last replication will be saved on the subscriber computer.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Vocabulary linked to WDReplic
<a name="vocabulary_linked_wdreplic_ELTTEXTE000192"></a>
WDReplic uses specific vocabulary:

- **The replication scenario**
	The replication scenario is a SRP file containing the set of operations to perform to build the replication. 
	For example, for a portable replication between the master replica and the subscriber replica, the scenario consists of:

	- the path of master replica, 

	- the path of the portable replica (file with WDZ extension) which must be created, 

	- the transmission mode of the portable replica and its characteristics (for an FTP or e-mail transmission), 

	- the identifier of the subscriber site concerned by the replication, 

	- the conflict management mode during replication (if two records have been modified on two machines, which modification is applied).




- **Movable replica**
	File in ZIP format containing all the information needed for the replication. This file is created when the master site and the subscriber site are remote and not connected. 
	During a synchronization by FTP or email, WDReplic sends the WDZ file via the specified media.

- **Identifier of Subscriber Site**
	When installing a subscriber replica, this replica is associated with a (numeric or character string) identifier. This identifier is used when creating a replication scenario using portable media.





