
## Import from previous versions
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000091"></a>
To install a dynamic WEBDEV site on a web server, you will need deployment accounts. Importing accounts from a previous version allows you to use these accounts in the current version.

The site information, WebSocket servers and SOAP and REST webservices must also be migrated in order to be used with a later version of the WEBDEV engine. For example, to use a site created in WEBDEV 27 with a WEBDEV 28 engine, you must import the details of the site.

The Hosting Control Center allows you to import configurations from previous versions: 

- Deployment accounts,

- Sites, 

- SOAP Webservices,

- REST Webservices, 

- WebSocket servers. 




**To import elements from previous versions**: 

1. Start the Hosting Control Center. 

2. In the "Configuration" group, expand "Import from previous versions" and select the elements to be imported.

3. Import accounts: 
	In the wizard that opens, select: 

	- The WEBDEV version from which the elements should be imported,

	- The list of user accounts to import.




4. Import sites, SOAP and REST webservices, WebSocket servers: 
	Select the items to import from the list. Sites, Webservices (SOAP and REST) and WebSocket servers that have not been imported will not work with a more recent version of WEBDEV Application Server. 
	 Remark: A site created with an earlier WEBDEV version can be used with a WEBDEV 28 engine. However, the information linked to the site must be migrated. 

5. Confirm the import. 
	You can now manage imported accounts in the Hosting Control Center.





