


## RulerVisible (Property)

***In french: RégletteVisible***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **RulerVisible** property is used to: 

- Determine if a playhead is visible in a TimeLine control. 

- Show or hide a playhead in a TimeLine control. 




**Reminder**: The playhead of a TimeLine control is a bold vertical line that represents a specific point in the control. The style of the playhead can be defined in the "Style" tab of the TimeLine control ("Selected time").
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Set the playhead to 5 seconds
TL_TimeLine.RulerVisible = True
TL_TimeLine.RulerValue = 5
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Determining if a playhead is visible

`<Result> = <Control used>.RulerVisible`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the playhead is visible in the control, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of TimeLine control used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Showing or hiding a playhead

`<Control used>.RulerVisible = <Visible/Invisible>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of TimeLine control used.

**`<Visible/Invisible>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the playhead must be visible, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The user can move the playhead: 

	- if the "Movable playhead" option is checked in the description window of the TimeLine control. 

	- if the [RulerModifiable](../Proprietes/1000020381.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.




- The playhead is visible to the user: 

	- if the "Show playhead" option is checked in the description window of the TimeLine control. 

	- if the **RulerVisible** property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.




- The default position of the playhead corresponds to the value of the [StartTotalRange](../Proprietes/1000020392.md) property. 

- The end user can change the value of the playhead by moving it with the mouse. This action triggers the "Modification" event of the TimeLine control. 

- The new position of the playhead is returned by the [RulerValue](../Proprietes/1000020380.md) property. 





