


## NullAllowed (Property)

***In french: NullAutorisé***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **NullAllowed** property is used to manage the NULL value in the items of HFSQL data files.

This property is used to:

- Find out the management mode of the NULL value for an item of a data file described in the data model editor.

- Define the management mode of the NULL value when an item of a data file is described through programming.




If the data file and the item support NULL values, the [Null](../Proprietes/2512064.md) property can be used to assign NULL to the item for the current record.

The **NullAllowed** property is useful to prevent the use of the NULL value for some items in a data file defined through programming (a data file that supports the NULL value).  






<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Determining if the item allows the use of the NULL value

`Result> = <Data file>.<Item>.NullAllowed`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the item allows the use of the NULL value, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the item does not allow the use of the NULL value.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Logical name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the management mode of the NULL value for the item

`Item>.NullAllowed = <Management mode`
---

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used. This name was defined by the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.

**`<Management mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to manage the NULL value, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> not to support the NULL value.







## Remarks


### How to know whether a data file supports the management of NULL value? 
<a name="how_know_whether_data_file_supports_the_management_null_value_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

To determine if a data file allows the use of the NULL value, use the [NullSupported](../Proprietes/2512061.md) property.

Caution:

- It is not possible to assign a value to the **NullAllowed** property on a data file or item that does not support the NULL value: a fatal error occurs.

- Reading the **NullAllowed** property on a data file or item that does not support the NULL value always returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Limits
<a name="limits_ELTPARAGRAPHE000117"></a>

The NULL value cannot be used:

- on the array items.

- on the automatic identifiers.

- on the composite keys.





