


## Description (Property)

***In french: Description***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **Description** property is used to get and change the page description. The description may be truncated when it is displayed in the search result. The description can also be entered from the page editor.

In Active WEBDEV Pages, the **Description** property is used to dynamically enter the description associated with the page (based on the page content).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Modifies the description of the page according to its content
MyPage.Description = "Online boat sales"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the description associated with a page

`<Page description> = <Page used>.Description`
---

**`<Page description>: (Character string)`**

Sentence used to describe the page.

**`<Page used>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page to be analyzed.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the description associated with a page 

`<Page used>.Description = <Page description>`
---

**`<Page used>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page for which the description must be defined.

**`<Page description>: (Character string)`**

Description that must be associated with the page. This sentence must encourage the Web users to visit the page. This string must comply with the following rules:

- No CR character (Carriage Return)

- Be short (up to 200 characters)  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Description associated with a page
<a name="description_associated_with_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

The description associated with a page is written in the HTML header of the page (&lt;META NAME="Description" CONTENT="..."&gt; tag). This description is used by the search engines: this value is displayed as page description in the list of search results.

The description must be defined in the initialization code of the page. Furthermore, to be efficient, the description must be defined on pages accessible via a URL in the following format: "http://".


