


## CaptionHTML (Property)

***In french: LibelléHTML***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CaptionHTML** property is used to handle the text of a control as HTML code.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
LINK_GSC.CaptionHTML = "Display the <strong>general sales conditions</strong>"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Retrieving the value of control caption

`<Result> = <Control to use>.CaptionHTML`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Control caption in HTML format.

**`<Control to use>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: Rich Text Area, Button, etc.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the value of control caption

`<Control to use>.CaptionHTML = <New value>`
---

**`<Control to use>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used: Rich Text Area, Button, etc.

**`<New value>: (Character string)`**

New caption for the control. This value must correspond to a valid HTML code.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Static and HTML static
<a name="static_and_html_static_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

A control includes a caption or an HTML caption: it cannot include both at the same time. Assigning a value to the **CaptionHTML** property deletes the value of the text assigned with the [Caption](../Proprietes/2510053.md) property (and conversely).

An error occurs if the [Caption](../Proprietes/2510053.md) property is accessed in read-only mode and the text in the control is in HTML. However, reading the **CaptionHTML** property in a control whose caption has been assigned using the [Caption](../Proprietes/2510053.md) property returns the value of the caption in HTML. 

Summary table: 


|   |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- |
|   | Property assigned in the control: [Caption](../Proprietes/2510053.md) | Property assigned in the control: **CaptionHTML** |
| Property read: [Caption](../Proprietes/2510053.md) | Returns the value. | Error. |
| Property read: **CaptionHTML** | Returns the value encoded in HTML. | Returns the value. |




### Validity of HTML code
<a name="validity_html_code_ELTPARAGRAPHE000096"></a>

No check is performed regarding the validity of HTML code. If an invalid HTML value is assigned in the control, the page may not be displayed properly by the browser. You must pay attention to:

- The tags (and attributes) not properly closed or invalid for the HTML standard of the page (HTML 4, HTML 5, ...). 

- The encoding of special characters. You have the ability to use [TextToHTML](../WDLang1/3025050.md).





### Limitation
<a name="limitation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

This property is available for the following controls: 

- Button control,

- Link control,

- Rich Text Area control,

- Edit control, 

- Check Box control,

- Radio Button control,

- List Box control,

- Formatted display control,

- Combo Box control,

- Option of Check Box control,

- Option of Radio Button control,

- Menu option.

- Table column.





