
## AutomaticallyMinimized (Property)

***In french: RéduitAutomatique***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **AutomaticallyMinimized** property is used to: 

- Find out the timeout before the Repositionable Note is automatically minimized.

- Define the timeout before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized. 




Remark: This property is equivalent to the "Automatically reduce the note after" option in the "UI" tab of the control description window. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Expand a Repositionable Note control and leave it expanded
NOTE_MyNote.Minimized = False
NOTE_MyNote.AutomaticallyMinimized = 0
```



```wl
// Collapse Repositionable Note control after one minute
NOTE_MyNote.Minimized = True
NOTE_MyNote.AutomaticallyMinimized = 60
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out the duration before the Repositionable Note is automatically minimized

`<Result> = <Repositionable Note control>.AutomaticallyMinimized`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Duration (in seconds) before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized. 

**`<Repositionable Note control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Repositionable Note control to use. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the duration before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized

`<Repositionable Note control>.AutomaticallyMinimized = <Automatic Collapse>`
---

**`<Repositionable Note control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Repositionable Note control to use. 

**`<Automatic Collapse>: (Integer ou Duration)`**

Duration (in seconds) before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized. This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of seconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g.: '1s' or '10 s'). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

- By default, the Repositionable Note is never minimized ("Automatically reduce the note after" option in the "UI" tab set to "Never").

- If the user expands the Repositionable Note control, it remains expanded. 

- If an XX value is assigned to the **AutomaticallyMinimized** property, the Repositionable Note control will be automatically minimized after XX seconds. 





### Note
<a name="note_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

- The [Minimized](../Proprietes/1000022005.md) property allows you to know if a Repositionable Note control is minimized.   





