


## ShortcutKey (Property)

***In french: ToucheRaccourci***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **ShortcutKey** property gets and sets the keyboard shortcut associated with a control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// To be included in the declaration code of global variables of window
EXTERN "KEYCONST.wl"

BTN_BUTTON1.ShortcutKey = skControl + skShift + Asc("U") // Ctrl + Shift + U
BTN_BUTTON1.ShortcutKey = skControl + VK_F1		// Ctrl + F1
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out the keyboard shortcut associated with a control

`<Result> = <Control used>.ShortcutKey`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Shortcut key associated with the control. 

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the keyboard shortcut associated with a control

`<Control used>.ShortcutKey = <New shortcut>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. 

**`<New shortcut>: (Integer constant)`**

Shortcut key associated with the control. This key can correspond to one of the following elements or to a combination of the following elements: 

- Control keys: 
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *skAlt* | Alt key. |
| *skControl* | Ctrl key. |
| *skShift* | Shift key. |



- Specific control keys: Additional constants are available in the "KeyConst.wl" file. These constants are used to identify all the keyboard keys. This file is available in the "\\Personal\\Extern" directory of WINDEV or WINDEV Mobile. For more details, see [remarks](#NOTE0_1).

- Character keys: Simply use the ASCII code of the character (returned by [Asc](../WDLang1/3024004.md)).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Managing all the keyboard keys
<a name="managing_all_the_keyboard_keys_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

To manage all the keys with the **ShortcutKey** property:

1. Include the KeyConst.WL file in your project. This file associates a specific constant with each keyboard key. This file is available in the \\Personal\\Extern directory of WINDEV. To include this file in your applications, you need to use the [EXTERN](../Motscles/1511013.md) keyword as follows:
	
	```wl
	EXTERN "KEYCONST.wl"
	```


2. Use the constants in the **ShortcutKey** property:
	
	```wl
	cControl is Control <- ControlCreate("BTN_Button", typButton, 6, 60, 160, 30, False)
	cControl.ShortcutKey = skAlt + skShift + VK_F10
	```





Remarks: 

- To manage character keys, simply use the ASCII code of that character (returned by [Asc](../WDLang1/3024004.md)).

- All the constants found in the KeyConst.WL file start with the letters VK_. These constants are displayed by the code completion in the code editor from the moment the file has been integrated with the [EXTERN](../Motscles/1511013.md) keyword.





