


## KeepVisibleHierarchy (Property)

***In french: ConserverHiérarchieVisible***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **KeepVisibleHierarchy** property is used to:

- Find out which elements of the TreeView table will be printed: printing the entire hierarchy or printing the hierarchy that is visible in the control.

- Modify the print mode of the hierarchy: printing the entire hierarchy or printing the hierarchy that is visible in the control.




This property can only be used in the opening code of a "Report on TreeView Table" report.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// -- Opening code of the report
// Prints the visible hierarchy only
RPT_Report1.KeepVisibleHierarchy = True
```


<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// -- Opening code of the report
// Prints the entire hierarchy
RPT_Report1.KeepVisibleHierarchy = False
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the print mode of the hierarchy

`<Result> = <Report used>.KeepVisibleHierarchy`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the report will print the hierarchy rows currently displayed in the TreeView Table control, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the report will print all the hierarchy rows displayed in the TreeView Table control.




**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the "Report on TreeView Table" report to use.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modify the print mode of the hierarchy

`<Report used>.KeepVisibleHierarchy = <Type of print>`
---

**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the "Report on TreeView Table" report to use.

**`<Type of print>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to print the hierarchy rows currently displayed in the TreeView Table control, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to print all the hierarchy rows displayed in the TreeView Table control.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The **KeepVisibleHierarchy** property applies only to "Report on TreeView Table" reports and can only be used in the opening code of the report.


