


## Keywords (Property)

***In french: MotsClés***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **Keywords** property is used to get and modify the keywords associated with a page. The keywords can also be associated with a page from the page editor.

In Active WEBDEV Pages, the **Keywords** property is used to choose the keywords dynamically associated with the page (based on the content displayed on the page).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Modifies the keywords of the page according to its content
// Adds new keywords to the existing ones
MyPage.Keywords = MyPage.Keywords + ", Boat, Sail, Engine"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the keywords associated with a page

`<List of keywords> = <Page used>.Keywords`
---

**`<List of keywords>: (Character string)`**

Keywords associated with the page. The different keywords associated with the page are separated by a comma (", ").

**`<Page used>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page to be analyzed.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the keywords associated with a page 

`<Page used>.Keywords = <List of keywords>`
---

**`<Page used>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page for which keywords must be defined.

**`<List of keywords>: (Character string)`**

Keywords to associate with the page. The different keywords are separated by a comma (","). If keywords are already associated with the page, these keywords will be replaced. This string must comply with the following rules:

- No CR character (Carriage Return)

- No space characters and no quotes.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Keywords associated with a page
<a name="keywords_associated_with_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

The keywords associated with a page is written in the HTML header of the page (&lt;META NAME="Keywords" CONTENT="..."&gt; tab). These keywords are often used by search engines to reference pages.

The keywords must be defined in the initialization code of the page. Furthermore, to be efficient, the keywords must be defined on pages accessible via a URL in the following format: "http://".

Some tips: 

- The first 3 keywords of the list are very important.

- Don't enter more than 20 keywords per page.

- Don't repeat the same keyword.

- Use different grammatical forms (singular/plural, noun/verb).





