


## WinLineDetails (Property)

***In french: FenêtreDétailLigne***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **WinLineDetails** property allows you to get and change the name of the internal window used to display the details of a row in a Table control. 

Remark: The row is enlarged in height to display the internal window. The internal window is displayed below the data found in the row. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click on [With Details]
TABLE_Order.WinLineDetails = "IW_OrderDetails" 
TableExpand(TABLE_Order, 1)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the internal window used to display the row details

`<Internal window> = <Table control>.WinLineDetails`
---

**`<Internal window>: (Name of the internal window)`**

Name of the internal window used to display the details of a control row.

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table control to be used. 



### Modifying the internal window used to display the row details

`<Table control>.WinLineDetails = <Internal window>`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table control to be used. 

**`<Internal window>: (Name of the internal window)`**

Name of the internal window that will be used to display the details of a Table control row.
The prototype of this internal window is as follows:

```txt
PROCEDURE MyWindow(<Parent table> is control, <Row number> is int)
```

These parameters are filled when selecting the row to process in the control. 

- &lt;Parent table&gt;: Name of the Table control used. 

- &lt;Row number&gt;: Integer corresponding to the number of the row whose details are displayed.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


- The height of the row that displays the internal window corresponds to the initial height of the row plus the height of the internal window in edit mode ([InitialHeight](../Proprietes/2510043.md) property).

- The internal window is unloaded when the user collapses a row.

- The rows can be expanded and/or collapsed through programming with [TableExpand](../WDLang1/1000010007.md) and [TableCollapse](../WDLang1/1000010008.md).

- You also have the ability to specify an internal window specific to a row by using the following syntax:
	
	```txt
	<Table control>[Row number].WinLineDetails = NameOfIWForTheRow
	```






