


## WithNewButton (Property)

***In french: AvecBoutonNouveau***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **WithNewButton** property is used to: 

- Determine if a Dynamic Tab control has a New tab button (+).  

- Configure a Dynamic Tab control to show a New tab button. 




Reminder: The New tab button allows end users to open a new tab. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
TAB_DynTab.WithNewButton = True
TAB_DynTab.WindowIfNew = "IW_Document"
TAB_DynTab.CaptionIfNew = "New tab"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Determining if a Dynamic Tab control has a New tab button (+)

`<Result> = <Tab control>.WithNewButton`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if all tabs in a Dynamic Tab control include a New button (+),

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control do not include a New button. 




**`<Tab control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Tab control to be used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Configuring a Dynamic Tab control to show a New tab button

`<Tab control>.WithNewButton = <New tab button>`
---

**`<Tab control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Tab control to be used. 

**`<New tab button>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control should display a New tab button,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control should not display a New tab button. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The "Create a tab" event is executed when the user clicks the "+" button. By default, a new tabs is created. However, you can prevent new tabs from being created using the "RESULT False" statement or [SetFocusAndReturnToUserInput](../WDLang1/1410088107.md) in the "Create a tab" event.  

- The default text and internal window used for the new tab can be defined: 

	- in the Tab control description window ("Details" tab). 

	- programmatically with the [WindowIfNew](../Proprietes/1000021381.md) and [CaptionIfNew](../Proprietes/1000021380.md) properties.




- If the tabs do not have a New tab button, the "New" AAF (Automatic Application Feature) is disabled in the context menu of the tabs.





