


## WithClosingButton (Property)

***In french: AvecBoutonFermeture***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **WithClosingButton** property is used to: 

- Determine whether all the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control have a Close button. 

- Show a Close button in all the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control. 




Reminder: The Close button (X) allows users to close the tabs. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
TAB_DynamicTab.WithClosingButton = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Determining whether all the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control have a Close button

`<Result> = <Tab control>.WithClosingButton`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if all the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control have a Close button (X),

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control do not have a Close button (X). 




**`<Tab control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Tab control to be used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Showing a Close button in all the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control

`<Tab control>.WithClosingButton = <Close button>`
---

**`<Tab control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Tab control to be used. 

**`<Close button>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control should show a Close button (X),

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the tabs of a Dynamic Tab control should not show a Close button (X). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The "Close a tab" event is executed when the user clicks the Close button (if any). The tab is closed if this event does not prevent the user from closing it (with the "RESULT False" statement or [SetFocusAndReturnToUserInput](../WDLang1/1410088107.md)).

- If the tabs do not have a Close button (X), the following Automatic Application Features (AAFs) are disabled from the context menu of the tabs:

	- Close,

	- Close other tabs,

	- Close tabs to the right,

	- Close tabs to the left.




- The "X" icon cannot be removed or displayed on a single tab: either all or none of the tabs display an X icon.  





