


## DayHeight (Property)

***In french: HauteurJour***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **DayHeight** property is used to get and change the height of days in a Scheduler control where days are arranged in rows, and resources are arranged in columns. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF CBOX_Zoom = True THEN
	SCH_MySchedule.DayHeight = 200
ELSE
	SCH_MySchedule.DayHeight = 100
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the height of the days

`<Result> = <Scheduler control>.DayHeight`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Height of the days in pixels, if the height was modified through programming (with the **DayHeight** property). 

- -1 in the following cases: 

	- if the height of the days is automatically calculated (via the information given in the description window of the control). 

	- if the resources are displayed in row. In this case, you must use [DayWidth](../Proprietes/1000020108.md) and [ResourceHeight](../Proprietes/1000020109.md). 







**`<Scheduler control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Scheduler control used.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the height of the days

`<Scheduler control>.DayHeight = <New height>`
---

**`<Scheduler control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Scheduler control used.

**`<New height>: (Integer)`**



- New height of the days expressed in pixels. 

- -1 to automatically calculate the height of the days from the information given in the description window of the control. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If the height of the days is defined with the **DayHeight** property, the days cannot be "anchored" according to the available size. 

- Only the value -1 can be used. The other negative values are ignored.

- To modify the width of resources, use [ResourceWidth](../Proprietes/1000020110.md). 

- If breaks are found on the days, their height is returned by [DayBreakHeight](../Proprietes/1000020105.md). 





