
## DisplayAsMarkdown (Property)

***In french: VisualisationMarkdown***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **DisplayAsMarkdown** property indicates whether or not an Edit control displays its content in Markdown format. 

Remark: This property changes the type of Edit control to "Markdown read-only". 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click [Markdown preview]
EDT_Promo.DisplayAsMarkdown = True

// Click [Edit]
EDT_Promo.DisplayAsMarkdown = False
SetFocus(EDT_Promo)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Determining if an Edit control displays its content in Markdown format

`<Result> = <Edit control>.DisplayAsMarkdown`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the Edit control is in read-only mode and displays content in Markdown format. Scrolling and selection are enabled (except if the [State](../Proprietes/2510039.md) property is set to *Grayed*). The [State](../Proprietes/2510039.md) property remains unchanged. The Edit control is "Markdown read-only". 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the Edit control is in input mode.  




**`<Edit control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Edit control used. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Specifying whether or not an Edit control displays its content in Markdown format

`<Edit control>.DisplayAsMarkdown = <Management mode>`
---

**`<Edit control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Edit control used.    

**`<Management mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>: the Edit control switches to read-only mode and displays content in Markdown format. Scrolling and selection are enabled (except if the [State](../Proprietes/2510039.md) property is set to *Grayed*). The [State](../Proprietes/2510039.md) property remains unchanged.  The Edit control switches "Markdown read-only" mode.. 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>: the Edit control switches back to input mode. You also need to use the [State](../Proprietes/2510039.md) property to enable it. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The "Support Markdown" option in the "UI" tab of the Edit control description window applies only to the caption, tooltip and tokens associated with the control. This property does not apply to the content of the Edit control. 

- To display data in Markdown format, the Edit control must meet one of the following conditions: 

	- be of type "Markdown (read-only)". 

	- have the **DisplayAsMarkdown** property set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 








