
## HTMLAttribute (Property)

***In french: AttributHTML***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **HTMLAttribute** property reads and changes the HTML attributes of the control.

**Remarks**: 

- The HTML attributes of the control change its behavior to store specific additional information ("data-" attributes), add accessibility information ("aria-" attributes), etc.
	At runtime, the initial values of this property are the attributes defined in edit mode.

- In the editor, the HTML attributes are defined in the "Advanced" tab of the control description window. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Disables the spelling checker on the control
EDT_Edit.HTMLAttribute["spellcheck"] = "false"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Reading the value of the HTML attribute

`<Result> = <Control>.HTMLAttribute[<Attribute>]`
---

**`<Result>: (Expected type)`**

Value of the attribute.

**`<Control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control used. 

**`<Attribute>: (Character string)`**

Name of the attribute whose value is to be read.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Changing the value of the HTML attribute

`<Control>.HTMLAttribute[<Attribute>] = <Value>`
---

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control used. 

**`<Attribute>: (Character string)`**

Name of the attribute whose value is be changed.

**`<Control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control used. 

**`<Value>: (Type of the attribute)`**

New value of the attribute.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- Names and values are encoded properly before being written to the page.

- If an attribute is added in the WEBDEV editor (to make sure the control behaves properly): both will be included in the HTML code: the one defined with the **HTMLAttribute** property will take precedence. However, the resulting HTML code will not be validated and the page may not be properly displayed in the browser.

- Names and values are not checked. If an invalid name or value is used, the page may not be properly displayed in the browser.

- To remove an attribute, use the following syntax: 
	
	```txt
	<Control>.HTMLAttribute[<Attribute name>].Delete()
	```


- To define an attribute without a value, use the following syntax: 
	```txt
	<Control>.HTMLAttribute[<Attribute name>] = Null
	```






