


## Message (Property)

***In french: Message***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **Message** property is used to:

- Find out the help message associated with a control or with a menu option (in a window).

- Modify the help message associated with a control or with a menu option (in a window).




**Remarks**:

- The help message is displayed in the status bar of the window.

- The help message is defined in the "Help" tab of the control description ("Text of the status bar" option), with the **Message** property or the [Message](../WDLang1/3021006.md) function.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Modify the help message of the "EDT_ImageFile" Edit control
ImageFile.Message = "The image file must be a black && white image"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the help message

`<Result> = <Element used>.Message`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**



- Help message for the specified object, 

- Empty string ("") if no help message is associated with the object.




**`<Element used>: (Character string)`**

Name of the object (control or menu option) whose help message is requested.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the help message

`<Element used>.Message = <New help message>`
---

**`<Element used>: (Character string)`**

Name of the object (control or menu option) whose help message must be modified.

**`<New help message>: (Character string)`**

New help message for the specified object.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Displaying the help message
<a name="displaying_the_help_message_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

- **For a control** (except for Button controls): the help message is displayed in the status bar when the control takes focus.

- **For a Button control**: the help message is displayed in the status bar when the left mouse button is pressed.

- **For a menu option**: the help message is displayed in the status bar when the option is hovered.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### & character
<a name="character_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>To display the "&" character in a help message, this character must be typed twice. Otherwise, the character following the "&" character will be underlined and the "&" character will not be displayed. For example:


```wl
ImageFile.Message = "The image file must be a black && white image"
```

<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Limits
<a name="limits_ELTPARAGRAPHE000070"></a>

The **Message** property cannot be used on:

- an Image control, 

- a Shape control, 

- an option in a Check Box control, 

- an option in a Radio Button control, 

- a row in a List Box control, Combo Box control or Table control,

- a table cell,

- a tab, 

- a group of controls,

- an element in a TreeView control.





