
## DisplayEnabled (Property)

***In french: AffichageActif***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **DisplayEnabled** property is used to:

- determine whether or not a control or window is refreshed. If the control is displayed, its content is refreshed regularly.

- refresh a control or window.




This property optimizes the processes in which one or more controls must be used. The control or window is refreshed once it has been handled.

Caution: If there are automatic calculations is to be displayed in Table controls, these calculations are not performed when the **DisplayEnabled** property is set to <u><u><u>False</u></u></u>. For more details, see the [Remarks](#NOTE0_1). 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add 1000 elements to a Table control
// The Table control is not refreshed after each addition
TABLE_TABLE1.DisplayEnabled = False
// Add
I is int
FOR I = 1 TO 1000
	TableAdd(TABLE_TABLE1, MyCalculationRowContent(I))
END
// Refresh the Table control
TABLE_TABLE1.DisplayEnabled = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the current display mode

`<Result> = <Element used>.DisplayEnabled`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the element is set to be refreshed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Element used>: (Control name or window name)`**

Name of the control or window to be used.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Changing the current display mode

`<Element used>.DisplayEnabled = <Display mode>`
---

**`<Element used>: (Control or window name)`**

Name of the control or window to be used.

**`<Display mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to refresh the element, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to avoid refreshing the element.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The **DisplayEnabled** property must never remain set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>. This value must be temporary (when populating a Table control, for example). Otherwise, an unexpected behaviour may occur (Windows uses 100% of the processor to refresh the control even though it is not being refreshed).

- The **DisplayEnabled** property cannot be used on container controls such as Internal Window controls.

- Use example: Table control: 
	When the **DisplayEnabled** property is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>, values are not calculated or displayed in the Table control. For example, this property allows users to add or delete elements without refreshing or re-calculating the Table control. Adding elements is faster and display effects are ignored, since neither the display nor the automatic calculation processes are executed. The **DisplayEnabled** property must be set back to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> once these operations are completed. 





