


## TotalNbRec (Property)

***In french: NbEnrTotal***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **TotalNbRec** property is used to:

- Get the number of records to be printed (e.g., a report based on a file, memory area or query).

- Change the number of records to be printed (i.e., set a limit, for example, print only the first 50 records).









<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Change the maximum number of records to be printed
RPT_Customer.TotalNbRec = 25
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the maximum number of records to be printed

`<Result> = <Report used>.TotalNbRec`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Number of records to be printed,

- 0 if all the records must be printed.




**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the report to be used.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the maximum number of records to printed

`<Report used>.TotalNbRec = <New maximum number>`
---

**`<Report used>: (Report name)`**

Name of the report to be used.

**`<New maximum number>: (Integer)`**



- New number of records to be printed,

- 0 if all the records must be printed.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Number of records
<a name="number_records_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

- The [NbRecRead](../Proprietes/2511041.md) property returns the number of records selected by the source of the report (query, view, memory area or Table control).

- The [NbPrintedRec](../Proprietes/2511058.md) property returns the number of records selected both by the source of the report AND by the filter code (if any).

- The [NbRecRead](../Proprietes/2511041.md) and [NbPrintedRec](../Proprietes/2511058.md) properties return the same value for a report based on a file: the number of records in the file AND selected by the filter code (if any).

- The **TotalNbRec** property is used to determine and change the number of records to print. The number of records to print will be between 1 and the value of the [NbPrintedRec](../Proprietes/2511058.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Type of report
<a name="type_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000090"></a>

If the report is linked to:

- ***an HFSQL file***, the records to print are selected in the beginning of the data file.

- ***a query***, the maximum number of records to print can be known and/or modified in the description of advanced options of the query. To display the advanced options of the query linked to the report: 

	- Select "Edit the query" in the context menu of report. The query editor is displayed. 

	- Select "Query description" in the context menu of the query. 

	- In the window that is displayed, click the "Advanced" button.






<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Limit
<a name="limit_ELTPARAGRAPHE000104"></a>

The **TotalNbRec** property cannot be used on reports without a data source.


