


## CaseSensitive (Property)

***In french: SensibleCasse***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CaseSensitive** property is used to determine if the different searches performed on the item or the full-text index distinguish between uppercase and lowercase characters (with [HReadSeek](../WDLang4/3044050.md), [HReadSeekFirst](../WDLang4/3044036.md) and [HReadSeekLast](../WDLang4/3044034.md), for example). You can:

- Find out whether searches on this item (or full-text index) are case-sensitive. The item or the full-text index has been defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Enable or disable case sensitivity on an item or full-text index (when the item or full-text index is described through programming).





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define how the case is managed in the Orders.Name item
Orders.Name.CaseSensitive = True
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Orders)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out whether case sensitivity is enabled

`<Result> = <Data file>.<Item>.CaseSensitive`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the case is taken into account by the searches performed on this item, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**



- Name of the item used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.

- Name of full-text index used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [FullTextIndex Description](../WDLang4/1000017461.md) type.  





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the management mode of case (item described through programming)

`<Item>.CaseSensitive = <New management mode>`
---

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**



- Name of the item used. This name was defined by the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.

- Name of full-text index used. This name was defined by the [FullTextIndex Description](../WDLang4/1000017461.md) type.




**`<New management mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the case must be taken into account by the searches performed on this item, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Search performed on a "case-sensitive" item
<a name="search_performed_casesensitive_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

When a search is performed on a "case-sensitive" item, only the words with matching lowercase/uppercase characters will be found.

Therefore, if the customer name is "Smith":

- a search performed on "Smith" will find a record, 

- a search performed on "SMITH" will find no record.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Configuring the search options for an item
<a name="configuring_the_search_options_for_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

- To make searches accent-sensitive or insensitive, use the [AccentSensitive](../Proprietes/2512077.md) property.

- To make searches case-sensitive or insensitive, use the **CaseSensitive** property.

- To make searches punctuation-sensitive or insensitive, use the [PunctuationSensitive](../Proprietes/2512087.md) property.





