


## LogBackupDirectory (Property)

***In french: RépertoireSauvegardeJournal***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **LogBackupDirectory** property is used to manage the backup directory of log files. You can:

- Find out the backup directory of the log for a data file defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define the backup directory of the log for a data file (only when describing the file through programming).




**Remark**: This path is used during the automatic modification of data files to archive the logs. [HHistoryModification](../WDLang4/3044344.md) will also search for change history in these files.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the log directory of the Orders data file
Orders.LogBackupDirectory = "C:\MyFiles\MyLogs_BCK"
...
// Validate the file description
HDescribeFile(Orders)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the backup directory of a file log

`<Current name> = <Data file>.LogBackupDirectory`
---

**`<Current name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the backup directory of the log file associated with the data file. By default, this path corresponds to: &lt;directory of JNL files&gt;\\__JNLBackup. If this parameter corresponds to a relative path (and starts with a dot), the path will be relative to data files.

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Logical name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the backup directory of the log for a file created through programming

`<Data file>.LogBackupDirectory = <New name>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Logical name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<New name>: (Character string)`**

Backup path of the log files corresponding to the specified data file. By default, this path corresponds to: &lt;directory of JNL files&gt;\\__JNLBackup. 
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the current location is not modified. 
If this parameter corresponds to a relative path (and starts with a dot), the path will be relative to data files.  




