


## CtDescribedDatabase (Property)

***In french: CxBaseDeDonnéesDécrite***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **CtDescribedDatabase** property is used to set the OLE DB data source when connecting to a specific table via OLE DB. You can:

- Get the OLE DB data source used to connect to a table via OLE DB. This data source was described in the data model editor or when the data file was described through programming.
	Caution: the **CtDescribedDatabase** property ignores any changes made with [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md).
	This property can be used for a data file defined in the data model editor or through programming.

- Define the OLE DB data source used for connecting to a table by OLE DB (when the data file is described through programming). This property is equivalent to the [CtDatabase](../Proprietes/2512047.md) property. 




**Reminder**: [HConnect](../WDLang4/3044263.md) is used to redefine one or more parameters of the OLE DB connection to a table. By default, the characteristics of the OLE DB connection are defined:

- in the data model editor during the description of the data file, 

- when the data file is described through programming.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Find out the OLE DB data source
ResOLEDBDatabase = Customer.CtDescribedDatabase
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the OLE DB data source

`<OLE DB data source> = <Data file>.CtDescribedDatabase`
---

**`<OLE DB data source>: (Character string)`**

Full path of the OLE DB data source, specified during the description of the file.

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the OLE DB data source

`<Data file>.CtDescribedDatabase = <OLE DB data source>`
---

**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined by the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<OLE DB data source>: (Character string)`**

Full path of OLE DB data source.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The [CtDatabase](../Proprietes/2512047.md) property is used to get and change the data source specified for the OLE DB connection.


