


## PunctuationSensitive (Property)

***In french: SensiblePonctuation***
	



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **PunctuationSensitive** property is used to determine if punctuation characters (comma, period, etc.) are taken into account in the different searches performed on the item (with [HReadSeek](../WDLang4/3044050.md), [HReadSeekFirst](../WDLang4/3044036.md) and [HReadSeekLast](../WDLang4/3044034.md), for example). You can:

- Find out whether the searches performed on this item are punctuation-sensitive (item defined in the data model editor or through programming).

- Define the punctuation management mode for an item (item described through programming).





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Define the punctuation management mode for the Orders.Name item
Name.PunctuationSensitive = True
...
// Validate the data file description
HDescribeFile(Orders)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out whether the punctuation is taken into account

`<Result> = <Data file>.<Item>.PunctuationSensitive`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the searches performed on this item are punctuation-sensitive,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Data file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the data file used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [File Description](../WDLang4/1514065.md) type.

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used. This name was defined in the data model editor or with the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the punctuation management mode (item described through programming)

`<Item>.PunctuationSensitive = <New management mode>`
---

**`<Item>: (Character string)`**

Name of the item used. This name was defined by the [Item Description](../WDLang4/1514071.md) type.

**`<New management mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the searches performed on this item are punctuation-sensitive,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Search performed on a "punctuation-sensitive" item
<a name="search_performed_punctuationsensitive_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

When a search is performed on a "punctuation-sensitive" item, only the sentences with matching punctuation characters will be found. Therefore, if the name of the customer is "Mr.Smith", the search performed on:

- "Mr.Smith" will find the matching record,

- "Mr Smith" will find no matching record.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Configuring the different search options for an item
<a name="configuring_the_different_search_options_for_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000109"></a>

- To make searches accent-sensitive or insensitive, use the [AccentSensitive](../Proprietes/2512077.md) property.

- To make searches case-sensitive or insensitive, use the [CaseSensitive](../Proprietes/2512085.md) property.

- To make searches punctuation-sensitive or insensitive, use the **PunctuationSensitive** property.





