
## GglAnalyticsAddSocialNetworkAction (Function)

***In french: GglAnalyticsAjouteRéseauSocial***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a social network action beside Google Analytics. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
GglAnalyticsAddSocialNetworkAction("Facebook", "like", "http://mysite.com")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`GglAnalyticsAddSocialNetworkAction(<Social network> , <Action> , <Target> [, <Other>])`
---

**`<Social network>: (Character string)`**

Name of the social network for which the action will be added (for example: Facebook, Twitter, ...). 

**`<Action>: (Character string)`**

Type of action to add (Like, Send, Tweet, ...).

**`<Target>: (Character string)`**

Target of the action on the social network. This parameter can be the address of a Web site or any other character string.

**`<Other>: (Optional variant)`**

Additional options depending on the social network. For more details on the possible values, se the Google Analytics documentation ([https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/social-interactions](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/social-interactions)) 
This parameter is set to Null by default.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- To use this function, you must have and save a Google Analytics identifier in the project. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md). 

- **Remark**: As of July 1, 2023, Google Analytics is moving from Universal Analytics to Google Analytics 4. WEBDEV 28 manages both versions. The WLanguage functions have been adapted. By Default, for existing projects, the managed mode is Universal Analytics and for new projects, the managed mode is Google Analytics 4. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
