
## IdentifierAWPContext (Function)

***In french: IdentifiantContexteAWP***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the identifier of AWP context. This identifier can be used to build a URL for example.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Adds the context into a built URL
LINK_Dyn = PageName + ".awp?client=" + Client + "&" + IdentifierAWPContext()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = IdentifierAWPContext()`
---

**`<Result>: (ANSI character string)`**



- Identifier of the AWP context, 

- Empty string ("") if the function is useless, in the following cases for example:

	- The current page is not an AWP page.

	- The current page is an AWP page without context.

	- The current page is an Active WEBDEV Page with a context that is not stored on disk.  

	- The transmission is performed by cookie. 









<a name="NOTE0"></a>

## Remarks
If the default transmission mode is used: 

- During the first display of the page, the two transmission modes are used (transmission by cookie and by url). **IdentifierAWPContext** returns the identifier of the AWP context. 

- During the next displays: 

	- If cookies are enabled, the AWP context identifier is sent via cookies and **IdentifierAWPContext** returns an empty string (""). 

	- If cookies are disabled, the AWP context identifier is sent via URLs. **IdentifierAWPContext** returns the identifier of the AWP context. 








### Pre-launched sessions
<a name="prelaunched_sessions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

If your project uses pre-launched sessions, this function must not be used in the project initialization event. This function must be used in the "Initializing the project after connection to the site" event. 





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
