
## AppServerRunScheduledTask (Function)

***In french: ServeurAppliExécuteTâchePlanifiée***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Immediately starts the execution of a scheduled task on a WEBDEV Application Server. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Programs the task so that it is run every hour
MyScheduledTask is appServerScheduledTask
MyScheduledTask.Name = "MyTask"
MyScheduledTask.Procedure = MyProc
MyScheduledTask.Month = "*"
MyScheduledTask.DayOfMonth = "*"
MyScheduledTask.DayOfWeek = "*"
MyScheduledTask.Hour = "*"
MyScheduledTask.Minute = "0"

// Starts the task immediately
AppServerRunScheduledTask(MyScheduledTask)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = AppServerRunScheduledTask(<Scheduled task>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the execution of the scheduled task was started. 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Scheduled task>: (Associated type)`**

Scheduled task to run. This parameter can correspond to: 

- a variable of type [appServerScheduledTask](../WDLang2/1000022367.md). In this case, only the task name is taken into account. The parameters of the task are those specified when creating the task with [AppServerAddScheduledTask](../WDLang2/1000022347.md).

- a procedure name. The scheduled task associated with the name of this procedure will be run. 

- the name of a scheduled task. The corresponding scheduled task will be run. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The task is run in an independent session (like all the other scheduled tasks).

- The task is not run if it already is currently running.

- The task is run even if the task is disabled.

- The scheduled task cannot be run during a project test. The site must be deployed. 

- If an error occurs when starting or running the task, the error will not be transmitted by **AppServerRunScheduledTask**. The error will have to be processed in the process, in a LOG file for example.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
