
## GglAnalyticsAddEvent (Function)

***In french: GglAnalyticsAjouteEvénement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds an event in Google Analytics. 

**Remark**: As of July 1, 2023, Google Analytics is moving from Universal Analytics to Google Analytics 4. WEBDEV 28 manages both versions. The WLanguage functions have been adapted. By Default, for existing projects, the managed mode is Universal Analytics and for new projects, the managed mode is Google Analytics 4. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
GglAnalyticsAddEvent("Video", "play", "product trial", "pushchair")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`GglAnalyticsAddEvent(<Category> , <Action> [, <Caption> [, <Event number> [, <Options>]]])`
---

**`<Category>: (Character string)`**

Name of the category. This parameter is used to group several events ("Video" for example).

**`<Action>: (Character string)`**

Name of the action linked to the event ("play", for example). 

**`<Caption>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional caption used to simplify the filing of events ("Advertising" for example).
This parameter corresponds to an empty string by default. 

**`<Event number>: (Optional integer)`**

Number associated with the event. This parameters corresponds to 0 by default. 

**`<Options>: (Optional variant)`**

Additional options dependent on Google Analytics. For more details on the possible values, se the Google Analytics documentation at [https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events). 
This parameter is set to Null by default.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
To use this function, you must have and save a Google Analytics identifier in the project. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md). 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
