


## &lt;Looper&gt;.AddIP (Function)

***In french: &lt;Zone répétée&gt;.AjoutePI***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a row as an internal page at the end of a Looper control populated programmatically. 

This makes it possible to create nested Looper controls or rows with different content.

**Caution**: To use this function, the "Use an internal page per row (LooperAddIP function)" option must be checked ("Content" tab of the control description).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
LOOP_Component.AddIP(IPAGE_PROCESSOR, "i7", 2) 
LOOP_Component.AddIP(IPAGE_DISK, "SAMDATA", "SSD", 20 000 000)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Looper control>.AddIP(<Internal page> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Number of the new row.

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used.

**`<Internal page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the internal page to be used to create the row.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type corresponding to the parameter (optional))`**

First parameter to be passed to the internal page. This parameter is passed to the "Global declarations" event of the internal page.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type corresponding to the parameter (optional))`**

Nth parameter to be passed to the internal page. This parameter is passed to the "Global declarations" event of the internal page.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If one of the controls in the internal page is anchored based on its content, the row height will adapt automatically. Otherwise, the row height will be the height of the internal page in edit mode.

- The name of the internal page used for a row can be retrieved using the following syntax: 
	
	```txt
	<Looper control>[Row].Name
	```


- **Parameters passed to the internal page**: These parameters are specified in the "Global declarations" event of the internal page. Simply write the following line of code at the start of the event:
	
	```txt
	PROCEDURE <Page name>(<Parameter 1> [, ...] [, <Parameter N>])
	```
For more details, see [Page with parameters](../WDChamp/1012020.md).

- Tip: To get the number of a given row (for example, when a button in the internal page is clicked), create an attribute in the Looper control and assign the result of **&lt;Looper&gt;.AddIP** to this attribute. 

- Caution: The maximum number of controls that can be created is set to 1000 (the number of controls per row depends on the internal page added).
	The following error occurs if more than 1000 controls are created: "Overflow: the looper contains more than 1000 controls in xxx rows".




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
