
## Controlling the WEBDEV Application Server
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000126"></a>
Starting with version 28, you can remotely control the WEBDEV Application Server. This new feature makes it possible to automate actions, make these actions available using a custom UI, and create custom monitoring and statistics tools.

This can be done from a WINDEV application or WEBDEV site.

These are some of the actions that can be automated:

- Manage WEBDEV accounts: create, delete, list accounts...

- Manage connections: list connections, disconnect users, get the number of connected users, etc.

- ...




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>


### Managing WEBDEV accounts 
<a name="managing_webdev_accounts_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To remotely manage WEBDEV accounts: 

1. Define a variable of type [WBAdminAuth](../WDLang2/1410089328.md). This variable allows you to define the characteristics of the API used to remotely manage a WEBDEV Application Server.   

2. Use a variable of type [WBAdminAccount](../WDLang2/1410089382.md).

	- To create an account, simply define all the characteristics of the [WBAdminAccount](../WDLang2/1410089382.md) variable and then use [WBAdminCreateAccount](../WDLang2/1410089450.md). 

	- To update or delete an account, simply retrieve the [WBAdminAccount](../WDLang2/1410089382.md) variable that corresponds to the desired account with [WBAdminListAccount](../WDLang2/1410089449.md). Then, use [WBAdminUpdateAccount](../WDLang2/1410089471.md) and [WBAdminDeleteAccount](../WDLang2/1410089472.md). 







Caution: To add WEBDEV accounts, the Windows account used must be the Server administrator. 


### Manage connections
<a name="manage_connections_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

To remotely manage connections: 

1. Define a variable of type [WBAdminAuth](../WDLang2/1410089328.md). This variable allows you to define the characteristics of the API used to remotely manage a WEBDEV Application Server.   

2. Use a variable of type [WBAdminConnection](../WDLang2/1410089344.md). The list of active connections can be retrieved using [WBAdminListConnection](../WDLang2/1410089342.md). You can delete a connection using [WBAdminDisconnect](../WDLang2/1410089343.md). 








