


## JSMethod (Function)

***In french: JSMéthode***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to run a JavaScript method on an element found in the current page.

This function is an advanced function: a good knowledge of Javascript is required.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`JSMethod(<Full element name> , <Method> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Full element name>: (Character string)`**

"JavaScript" name of element to use. In most cases, this name starts with "document.". You must use the aliases of controls. For more details, see Remarks.

**`<Method>: (Character string)`**

Method of the element to use. The name of the method must be directly specified: you cannot use a built string.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Optional character string)`**

Parameters of the method.



**`<Parameter N>: (Optional character string)`**

Parameters of the method.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### JSMethod handles the aliases of the controls
<a name="jsmethod_handles_the_aliases_the_controls_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

The JavaScript language is case sensitive for the identifiers: the full element name must respect the case defined for the control aliases: all page and control aliases are written in uppercase characters.

To build the name of element name, you must know the control alias. This alias corresponds to the control name in the HTML page. To find out this alias:

- in the page editor, hover the element to display the alias used in the control tooltip.

- in the code editor, press Shift + F1.

- through programming, use the [Alias](../Proprietes/2510004.md) property.




When building the full element name, you have the ability to use "_PAGE_" to access the page.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
