
## Obtaining an SSL certificate for IIS2 (2.0 or later)
			



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>


## Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTTEXTE000134"></a>
To obtain an SSL certificate for IIS 2 to 6, the different steps are as follows: 

1. [Creating a certificate](#NOTE1_1)

2. [Requesting a certification](#NOTE2_1)

3. [Certification of certificate on the server](#NOTE3_1)




If you are using IIS 7 or later, see [Obtaining an SSL certificate with IIS 7](../WDLang2/1000019454.md). 

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Step #1: Creating a certificate
<a name="step_1_creating_certificate_ELTTEXTE000158"></a>
To create a certificate:

1. Open the Internet Information Services Manager ("Start .. Run": Inetmgr.exe).

2. Select the Web site to secure (for example: "Default Web site").

3. Right-click this site and select "Properties" from the popup menu.

4. Select the "Directory security" tab:

	- Click "Server certificate". A wizard starts.

	- Select "Create a certificate".

	- In the "Usual name of your site" pane: enter the name of your computer.

	- The wizard creates a text file named "certreq.txt" allowing you to ask for your certificate.




5. Exit the properties of the Web server.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Step #2: Requesting a certification
<a name="step_2_requesting_certification_ELTTEXTE000182"></a>
The certification request must be sent to a certificate authority (for example: www.verisign.com). This example presents the steps to follow to send a certificate request to Verisign. These steps are similar for the other authorities.

1. In your browser, type: http://www.verisign.com

2. Click "Free Trial". This option allows you to get a free certificate valid for 15 days.

3. Fill out the short form and click "Submit".

4. Follow the certification wizard step by step:

	- *Step 1 of 5*: Generate CSR: Click "Continue".

	- *Step 2 of 5*: Submit CSR: Copy the content of the file that was previously created ("certreq.txt") into the input area and click "Continue".

	- *Step 3 of 5*: Complete Application: The content of the certificate is displayed, enter your personal details (Caution: the accented characters are not allowed, the information must be similar to the one found in the certificate content. Example: the area, the company). Don't forget to specify your email address: the certificate will be sent to this address. Click "Accept".





The certificate will be sent to you within an hour.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Step #3: Certification of certificate on the server
<a name="step_3_certification_certificate_the_server_ELTTEXTE000206"></a>


1. Your certificate is in the email sent by VeriSign.

	- Select the part that looks like this.
			
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
			
MIICBzCCAbECEFi+J6vFjN+EkkfCKLgi6uUwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEEBQAwgakxFjAUBgNVBAoTDVZlcml
			
TaWduLCBJbmMxRzBFBgNVBAsTPnd3dy52ZXJpc2lnbi5jb20vcmVwb3NpdG9yeS9UZXN0Q1BTIEluY2
			
9ycC4gQnkgUmVmLiBMaWFiLiBMVEQuMUYwRAYDVQQLEz1Gb3IgVmVyaVNpZ24gYXV0aG9yaXplZCB0Z
			
XN0aW5nIG9ubHkuIE5vIGFzc3VyYW5jZXMgKEMpVlMxOTk3MB4XDTAwMDkwMTAwMDAwMFoXDTAwMDkx
			
NTIzNTk1OVowZDELMAkGA1UEBhMCRlIxEjAQBgNVBAgTCUxBTkdVRURPQzEUMBIGA1UEBxQLTU9OVFB
			
FTExJRVIxDDAKBgNVBAoUA1BDUzEPMA0GA1UECxQGV0VCREVWMQwwCgYDVQQDFANtcjIwXDANBgkqhk
			
iG9w0BAQEFAANLADBIAkEAmqKCTidFBZEwI0Q7WPTBlQzlacQi5nwjNndrWU2tjGMElrY0IxoduwTgR
			X+DY42IuptGERQApb5NCx/4/3iBrQIDAQABMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBBAUAA0EABT7REV9bLiq3EFiug+a/
			irlbYI7aNiuITsdSVO7j34baFtxaa2jTE4JoGrNhrWTQZgBl1GOMpuMef/MuwXHO1A==
			
-----END CERTIFICATE-----




	- Copy the selected part into a new file named "Certif.cer" for example.

2. Open the Internet Information Services Manager ("Start..Run": Inetmgr.exe).

3. Select the Web site to secure (for example: "Default Web site").

4. Right-click this site and select "Properties".

5. Select the "Directory security" tab:

	- Click "Server certificate" and follow the wizard.

	- Select "Process the request and install the certificate".

	- Select the file that was just created (Certif.cer).

	- Finish the wizard.







**Important note**: If a test certificate was already installed on this computer:

- Remove the former certificate (select "Delete the certificate" in step 1).

- Change the name of your computer (indeed, two test certificates cannot be installed on the same computer = same name).

- Start again from step 1.





