


## PageRefresh (Function)

***In french: PageActualise***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Refreshes a page displayed in the user's browser from the context on the server. This function is mainly used for sites in Session mode. 

**Caution**: The page context must exist on the server. The page context is created by [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) and [ContextOpen](../WDLang2/3058004.md). All the events linked to the page or to the controls have already been run. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Refresh PAGE_Page1
PageRefresh(PAGE_Page1)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`PageRefresh([<Page>])`
---

**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page to refresh.
If this parameter is not specified or is an empty string (""), the page name corresponds to the page related to the current event.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Using PageRefresh in a event in AJAX mode
<a name="using_docparampagetitleshort_event_ajax_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

**Reminder**: AJAX is used to refresh the data modified in an HTML page without redisplaying the entire page. For more details, see [AJAX](../WDLang2/3055101.md).

If **PageRefresh** is used in an event in AJAX mode ("AJAX enabled" is displayed in the event bar) and if this event is used to solely or systematically refresh a page, the AJAX technology becomes useless. In AJAX mode, **PageRefresh** must be reserved for special cases.

During a long process, [AJAXExecuteAsynchronous](../WDLang2/3055115.md) allows you to display a wait message. 


### Pre-launched sessions
<a name="prelaunched_sessions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000091"></a>

If your project uses pre-launched sessions, this function must not be used in the project initialization event. This function must be used in the "Initializing the project after connection to the site" event. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
