


## ContextClose (Function)

***In french: ContexteFerme***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Closes a page context. In some specific cases (User Groupware, etc.), you have the ability to specify the value to return.

Caution: Closing the context of the current page is not recommended.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
ContextClose(PAGE_Page4)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Closing the page context

`ContextClose(<Page>)`
---

**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page whose context must be closed. If this parameter is equal to an empty string (""), the name of the page corresponds to the page to which the current process belongs.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Closing the page context and returning information

`ContextClose(<Page> , <Return value>)`
---

**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page whose context must be closed. If this parameter is equal to an empty string (""), the name of the page corresponds to the page to which the current process belongs.

**`<Return value>: (Type of returned value)`**

Value returned to the calling page. This parameter is reserved for the use of specific WEBDEV pages that are automatically opened (User Groupware pages, etc.). The value of this parameter is ignored if this parameter is used for a page that expects no return value.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Pre-launched sessions
<a name="prelaunched_sessions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

If your project uses pre-launched sessions, this function must not be used in the project initialization event. This function must be used in the "Initializing the project after connection to the site" event. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280dllexe.dll
