


## ContextOpen (Function)

***In french: ContexteOuvre***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Opens a new page context without returning the information to the browser. This function is used to pass parameters to one of the frameset pages.

If a context with the same name is already opened, this one is automatically destroyed (the closing code of the page is run) and opened.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Open the context of PAGE_Page4
ContextOpen(PAGE_Page4)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`ContextOpen(<Page> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Page>: (Page name)`**

Name of the page whose context must be opened. If this parameter is equal to an empty string (""), the name of the page corresponds to the page to which the current process belongs.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of value sent to the page (optional))`**

Parameters expected by the opening process of the page to display. These parameters are passed by reference and are considered as global variables to the page.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type of value sent to the page (optional))`**

Parameters expected by the opening process of the page to display. These parameters are passed by reference and are considered as global variables to the page.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### ContextOpen, PageDisplay and PageRefresh
<a name="docparampagetitleshort_pagedisplay_and_pagerefresh_ELTPARAGRAPHE000044"></a>

**ContextOpen** has the same effect as [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) but it does not send the page back to the browser. To send the page back to the browser, use [PageRefresh](../WDLang2/3058011.md).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Passing parameters to ContextOpen
<a name="passing_parameters_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

When opening a frameset whose one or more pages expect parameters, you must (before displaying the frameset) open the context of the frameset pages by specifying the parameters expected by these pages.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Pre-launched sessions
<a name="prelaunched_sessions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000070"></a>

If your project uses pre-launched sessions, this function must not be used in the project initialization event. This function must be used in the "Initializing the project after connection to the site" event. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280dllexe.dll
