
## FramesetUse (Function)

***In french: FramesetUtilise***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Displays a WEBDEV frameset in the user's browser and closes all the current page and frameset contexts.

If **FramesetUse** is used in a button code, the frameset will be opened in the target defined for this button ("General" tab of the control description or [ChangeTarget](../WDLang2/3058005.md)).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Switch the application to English
Nation(nationEnglish)
// Redisplay the FSET_LOGIN frameset with caption in English
FramesetUse(FSET_LOGIN)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`FramesetUse(<Frameset name> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Frameset name>: (Character string)`**

Name of frameset to display. 
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the frameset name is the one of the frameset to which the current event belongs.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of value sent to the page (optional))`**

Parameters that will be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the frameset to open. These parameters are passed by reference and are considered as global variables to the frameset and to all the pages of the frameset.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type of value sent to the page (optional))`**

Parameters that will be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the frameset to open. These parameters are passed by reference and are considered as global variables to the frameset and to all the pages of the frameset.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Retrieving parameters
<a name="retrieving_parameters_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>To retrieve the parameters, in the "Global declarations" event of the frameset, specify the following line at the beginning of the code:


```txt
PROCEDURE <Frameset name>(<Parameter 1> [,...[, <Parameter N>]])
```

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Principle for opening a frameset
<a name="principle_for_opening_frameset_ELTPARAGRAPHE000070"></a>

**FramesetUse** does the following:

- create a frameset context on the server.

- create a page context on the server for all the frameset pages on the server.

- return the frameset to the user's browser.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### Operations run when opening the frameset
<a name="operations_run_when_opening_the_frameset_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

The different operations that can be performed when displaying the frameset are as follows:

- Running the "Global declarations" and "Initializing" events of the frameset.

- Opening the frameset pages (run the "Global declarations" and "Initializing" events for each page).

- WLanguage code after the call to **FramesetUse** (if used).



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>




### Multilingual sites
<a name="multilingual_sites_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

**FramesetUse** can be used in multilingual sites. Indeed, this function is used to reopen a frameset while taking into account the language specified by [Nation](../WDLang1/3054014.md).
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Pre-launched sessions
<a name="prelaunched_sessions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000112"></a>

If your project uses pre-launched sessions, this function must not be used in the project initialization event. This function must be used in the "Initializing the project after connection to the site" event. 
<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>




### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000120"></a>

- It is recommended to use [FramesetRefresh](../WDLang2/3058014.md) to redisplay a frameset.

- To display a frameset without closing the contexts opened on the server, we recommend that you use [FramesetDisplay](../WDLang2/3058006.md).

- You should not use WLanguage code after a call to **FramesetUse**.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
