


## LooperSelectMinus (Function)

***In french: ZoneRépétéeSelectMoins***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deselects a row in a Looper control. The selected row corresponds to the current row on which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **LooperSelectMinus** can be used on:

- a Looper control based on a data file or populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection Looper control.









<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Deselects row 5 in the "LOOP_Product" Looper control
LooperSelectMinus(LOOP_Product, 5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`LooperSelectMinus(<Looper control> [, <Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Looper control used is the Looper control to which the current event belongs.

**`<Index 1>: (Optional integer)`**

First index of the row to deselect. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified Looper control are deselected. **LooperSelectMinus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to an unselected row. You can get the index of the selected row with [LooperSelect](../WDLang2/3083024.md).



**`<Index N>: (Optional integers)`**

Nth index of the row to deselect. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified Looper control are deselected. **LooperSelectMinus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to an unselected row. You can get the index of the selected row with [LooperSelect](../WDLang2/3083024.md).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
