
## Writing an email: the available methods
**Table of contents**

[Notes session (LotusNotes)](#notes_session_lotusnotes_ELTTEXTE000139)

[Outlook session](#outlook_session_ELTTEXTE000163)

[Exchange session](#exchange_session_ELTTEXTE000187)

[SMTP connection (sending only)](#smtp_connection_sending_only_ELTTEXTE000211)

[POP3 connection (reading only)](#pop3_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000235)

[POP3 connection (reading only)](#pop3_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000259)

[IMAP connection (reading only)](#imap_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000283)

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Notes session (LotusNotes)
<a name="notes_session_lotusnotes_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
To start the Notes session, use [EmailStartNotesSession](../WDLang3/3032121.md). This function establishes a connection to the Lotus Notes messaging software.
In this case, all the functions used ([EmailSend](../WDLang3/3032003.md), [EmailReadFirst](../WDLang3/3032014.md), ...) will be processed by the software that will handle the Notes database.
Everything is managed by Notes (security, history, sending, ...).
 Lotus Notes must be installed on the user computer.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Outlook session
<a name="outlook_session_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
To start the Outlook session, use [EmailStartOutlookSession](../WDLang3/3032128.md). This function establishes a connection to the Outlook messaging software.
In this case, all the functions used ([EmailSend](../WDLang3/3032003.md), [EmailReadFirst](../WDLang3/3032014.md), ...) will be processed by the software that will handle the Outlook database.
Everything is managed by Outlook (security, history, sending, ...). 
Outlook must be installed on the user computer.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Exchange session
<a name="exchange_session_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>
To start the Exchange session, use [EmailStartSession](../WDLang3/3032028.md). This function establishes a connection to an Exchange server.
In this case, all the functions used ([EmailSend](../WDLang3/3032003.md), [EmailReadFirst](../WDLang3/3032014.md), ...) will be processed by the Exchange server.
Everything is managed by Exchange (security, history, sending, ...).

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## SMTP connection (sending only)
<a name="smtp_connection_sending_only_ELTTEXTE000211"></a>
For an SMTP connection, use [EmailStartSMTPSession](../WDLang3/3032025.md). This function establishes a connection to the messaging server according to the SMTP protocol.
 This protocol is used to send emails. It cannot be used to read the emails.
**Caution**: no backup is performed when sending emails.

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## POP3 connection (reading only)
<a name="pop3_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000235"></a>
For a POP3 connection, use [EmailStartPOP3Session](../WDLang3/3032022.md). This function establishes a connection to the messaging server according to the POP3 protocol. 
This protocol is used to read emails. It cannot be used to send the emails.

<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## POP3 connection (reading only)
<a name="pop3_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000259"></a>
For a mixed connection (SMTP+POP3), use [EmailStartSession](../WDLang3/3032028.md). This function establishes a connection to the messaging server according to the SMTP and POP3 protocols. These protocols are respectively used to send emails and to read emails.
**Caution**: no backup of the trace is performed when sending emails.

<a name="NOTE7"></a>
<a name="NOTE7_1"></a>


## IMAP connection (reading only)
<a name="imap_connection_reading_only_ELTTEXTE000283"></a>
For an IMAP connection, use [EmailStartIMAPSession](../WDLang3/1000019189.md). This function establishes a connection to the messaging server according to the IMAP protocol. This protocol is used to read emails. It cannot be used to send the emails.


