
## How to open a page?
			

<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>
There are several functions to display a page: 

- [ PageDisplay](#NOTE1_1),

- [ PageRefresh](#NOTE2_1),

- [ PageUse](#NOTE3_1),

- [ PageDisplayDialog](#NOTE4_1),

- [ PopupDisplay](#NOTE5_1),

- [ CellDisplayDialog](#NOTE6_1).







<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## PageDisplay function
<a name="pagedisplay_function_ELTTEXTE000212"></a>
[PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) is used to display a page in a browser. 

- In a first time, the page context is created or re-created on the server. 

- Then, the page is sent to the Web user in order to be displayed in his browser. 




This function is used to manage the sequence of pages in a Web site. The page displayed replaces the previous page in the browser.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## PageRefresh function
<a name="pagerefresh_function_ELTTEXTE000236"></a>
[PageRefresh](../WDLang2/3058011.md) is used to display a page in a browser. 

Unlike [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md), the context of the page is not re-created on the server. The context found on the server is re-used to prepare the page on the server before this page is sent to the Web user and displayed in his browser.

The page context that was already created on the server is re-used by [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md).

You can also create a page context on the server via the context management functions ([ContextOpen](../WDLang2/3058004.md), etc.). 

**C This programming method is quite complex and requires a thorough knowledge of programming in WLanguage.**

The page displayed replaces the previous page in the browser.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## PageUse function
<a name="pageuse_function_ELTTEXTE000260"></a>
[PageUse](../WDLang2/3058016.md) is used to display a page in a browser. 

- In a first time, the page context is created or re-created on the server. 

- Then, the page is sent to the Web user and it is displayed in his browser. 




This function deletes all the previous page contexts from the server. 
This function gives the illusion that the site was jsut started by displaying the first page.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## PageDisplayDialog function
<a name="pagedisplaydialog_function_ELTTEXTE000284"></a>
[PageDisplayDialog](../WDLang2/1000017124.md) is used to display a page in a browser above a previous page.

- In a first time, the page context is created or re-created on the server. 

- Then, the page is sent to the Web user and it is displayed in his browser above the previous page.




In most cases, this page is smaller than the standard pages of the site. Everything that is found around the page is more or less opaque in order to manage a transparency effect above the previous page.

This type of page display is used to keep part of the previous page visible and to:

- fill a display, 

- perform an additional input, ...




Remark: A closing button must be included in this page in order to go back in input to the previous page. [PageCloseDialog](../WDLang2/1000017166.md) is used to manage the closing for this type of page.

This type of page is created in the WEBDEV editor like any standard page.

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## PopupDisplay function
<a name="popupdisplay_function_ELTTEXTE000308"></a>
[PopupDisplay](../WDLang2/1000019788.md) is used to display a page in a browser above a previous page.

- In a first time, the page context is created or re-created on the server. 

- Then, the page is sent to the Web user and it is displayed in his browser above the previous one.




In most cases, this page is smaller than the standard pages of the site. Everything that is found around the page is more or less opaque in order to manage a transparency effect above the previous page.

This type of page is created in the WEBDEV editor. It is generated in the same page as the page into which it will be displayed. 

A Popup page must be created so that it can be displayed by this function.

<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## CellDisplayDialog function
<a name="celldisplaydialog_function_ELTTEXTE000332"></a>
[CellDisplayDialog](../WDLang2/1000017139.md) is the "ancestor" of [PopupDisplay](../WDLang2/1000019788.md). The behavior is similar to the one of a Popup page.

No new page is created. A cell (Cell control) must be created in the current page. The cells are stacked or not.

This display mode is less practical than the Popup pages. We recommend that you use Popup pages as well as [PopupDisplay](../WDLang2/1000019788.md).


