
## Native Oracle Connector: Programming with SQL functions
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>
The SQL functions can be used to handle the ORACLE database, regardless of whether WDORAINS is used or not to configure the accessed database. For more details on WDORAINS, see [Configuring the connection with WDORAINS](../WDOracle/5513001.md).

**Differences compared to HFSQL programming**: The use of SQL functions to handle Oracle data does not require importing the file structure into the analysis. However, the data must be handled by queries only. The content of the Oracle files cannot be read directly.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Programming
<a name="programming_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>


### 1. Opening the connection
<a name="1_opening_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000023"></a>

[SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md) opens a connection to an Oracle database via the Native Connector. The type of database used (ORACLE in this case) must be passed as parameter to [SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md).

The database name corresponds to:

- the name defined in WDORAINS.

- the name given in SQL\*NET.





```wl
ConnectionNum = SQLConnect("OracleDatabase", "", "", "", "ORACLE")
```


Remark: You have the ability to perform an external authentication of the connection. For more details, see the help about [SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### 2. Running the queries
<a name="2_running_the_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

The queries are run by [SQLExec](../WDLang4/3072007.md). [SQLExec](../WDLang4/3072007.md) expects the text of the SQL query as parameter, as well as the name that will be given to this query.


```wl
SQLExec("SELECT LASTNAME, FIRSTNAME, EXTENSION, PHOTO FROM CUSTOMER", "QRY1")
```

<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### 3. Retrieving the result
<a name="3_retrieving_the_result_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

Several methods can be used to retrieve the result:

- [SQLFirst](../WDLang4/3072017.md): Gets the result and starts an iteration with [SQLFirst/SQLCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md).

- [SQLTable](../WDLang4/3072031.md): Retrieves the result of the query in a Table control populated programmatically in the WINDEV application or WEBDEV site. The result of the query can be retrieved by partial Fetch.

- [SQLFetch](../WDLang4/3072011.md): Used to read the different lines of the query result. The iteration over the query result is performed with [SQLFetch/SQLGetCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md).




[SQLLock](../WDLang4/3072003.md) is used to lock the table records or the records selected by the query.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### 4. Closing the connection
<a name="4_closing_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000091"></a>

[SQLClose](../WDLang4/3072015.md) is used to close the connection to the database once all the necessary queries have been run.


