
## WDStatistic: Configuring the WEBDEV administrator
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000112"></a>
To create the log files required to calculate the statistics for site traffic, a specific setting must be performed in the WEBDEV administrator.

This setting can be performed:

- from the remote WEBDEV administrator, accessible from the current computer (recommended).

- from the WEBDEV administrator installed at your hosting company (supplied with the WEBDEV application server).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the remote WEBDEV administrator
<a name="configuring_the_remote_webdev_administrator_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>
To create the log files for each one of the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server: 

1. Display the main page of the remote WEBDEV administrator.
	Reminder: The remote WEBDEV administrator can be run from any computer equipped with an Internet browser. To do so, use the following address: http://&lt;WebServer&gt;/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.EXE/CONNECT/WDAdminWeb

2. Select the requested WEBDEV site.

3. Check "Generate the log file".

4. Specify the directory where the log files must be created.




**Remark**: The remote WEBDEV administrator cannot be used to configure the creation of a common log file for all the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Configuring the WEBDEV administrator (WEBDEV Application Server)
<a name="configuring_the_webdev_administrator_webdev_application_server_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>


### Creating the log files for each one of the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server
<a name="creating_the_log_files_for_each_one_the_dynamic_webdev_sites_installed_the_web_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

To create the log files for each one of the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server: 

1. Display the "Sites" tab of the WEBDEV administrator (version used on the application server).

2. Select the requested WEBDEV site.

3. Check "Custom parameters".

4. Check "Generate a log file specific to this site for the traffic statistics (.log)".

5. Specify the directory where the log files must be created.

6. Click the "Apply" button.

7. Repeat these operations for each one of your sites (if necessary).



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Creating the common log files for all the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server
<a name="creating_the_common_log_files_for_all_the_dynamic_webdev_sites_installed_the_web_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

To create the log files common to all the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server: 

1. Display the "Configuration" tab of the WEBDEV administrator (version used with the application server).

2. Check "Generate a log file for the traffic statistics (.log)".

3. Specify the directory where the log files must be created.

4. Click the "Apply" button.





