
## WDStatistics: Overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000135"></a>
WDStatistics is a tool used to perform statistical calculations regarding the traffic of your dynamic WEBDEV sites (standard and AWP sites) and Webservices deployed on a WEBDEV Application Server.

These statistics are calculated from the log files (".LOG" extension) generated by the WEBDEV Application Server. These files can be saved for all the sites or for a specific site.

Some examples of statistics automatically calculated by WDStatistics:

- List of connections: details of all the connections performed on the Web server (IP address, date and time, browser used, operating system, etc.).

- Connections per site: number of connections per WEBDEV site and duration.

- List of pages visited by a Web user.

- Number of connections made for a given browser type (INTERNET Explorer, etc.).

- Number of connections per time slot.

- Number of connections per operating system.

- List of sites where the users were before getting to your site.

- List of keywords used on the search engines allowing the Web users to reach your site.

- Statistics regarding the geographical origin of the visitors (by country).




These statistics are displayed in:

- Summary table. These tables can be saved in Word, Excel or XML format (right mouse click on the table).

- Chart. These charts can be customized (right mouse click on the chart). You have the ability to change the type of chart, to add some legends, to modify the font, etc.

- Printable report. You have the ability to choose the type of report to print as well as the requested period. These reports can be printed, saved in PDF format, sent by Email, etc.




To start WDStatistic, run "WDStatistic.EXE" directly.

WDStatistics **cannot be redistributed**. WDStatistic cannot be installed on the Web server where your site is deployed.

To use WDStatistics, WEBDEV Development version must be installed on the current computer.

Remark: WDStatistics is also available as an on-line tool, from the remote administrator. For more details, see [Showing the statistics in the remote administrator](../WDAdminWeb/6466.md). 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Using WDStatistics
<a name="using_wdstatistics_ELTTEXTE000159"></a>
To find out the statistics regarding the traffic of your dynamic sites, you must:

1. [Configure the WEBDEV administrator](../WDStatistique/3536003.md) to generate the log file(s) (extension ".LOG").

2. [Import log file(s)](../WDStatistique/3536002.md) into WDStatistic.

3. [Use WDStatistic](../WDStatistique/3536001.md).



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>




### Log file
<a name="log_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

Statistics on visits to your dynamic sites are calculated from log files (extension ".LOG").. These files are generated by the WEBDEV engine.

This type of file can be created:

- ***For each one of the dynamic WEBDEV sites*** installed on the Web server. In this case, a single log file will be created every day in a directory specific to each site. This file will contain the history of the operations performed in the relevant dynamic WEBDEV site.

- ***For all the dynamic WEBDEV sites*** installed on the Web server. In this case, a single log file will be created every day in a common directory. This file will contain the history of the operations performed in all the dynamic WEBDEV sites installed on the Web server.




These log files are continuously recorded as soon as the associated site(s) are used.

The format of these log file names is as follows: "WDSession_&lt;BackupYear&gt;&lt;BackupMonth&gt;&lt;BackupDay&gt;"
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>




### Data files
<a name="data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000086"></a>

The data files of WDStatistics are found in the "C:\\Documents and Settings\\User\\Application Data\\PC SOFT\\WDSTATISTIC\\" directory. These files can be transferred from a computer to another one.


