
## SaaS administrator - Managing the subscriptions
			





## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000110"></a>
The SaaS subscriptions are used to make a SaaS site available to a client account.

For each pricing defined for a SaaS site, a client account can subscribe to a subscription and get some licenses that it will distributed among its users.

**Remark**: The management of subscriptions can only be performed with the "admin" account. Nevertheless, the users with the "Administrator" rights can change the distribution of licenses for the sites to which they subscribe.





## Subscribing a client account to a SaaS site
<a name="subscribing_client_account_saas_site_ELTTEXTE000134"></a>


### Subscribing a client account to a SaaS site
<a name="subscribing_client_account_saas_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000017"></a>

To subscribe a client account to a SaaS site: 

1. Open the page for managing the SaaS site ("Sites .. Manage a site" from the main menu of the SaaS administrator).

2. In the dialog box, select the name of the relevant SaaS site and validate. 

3. In the page for site management, click the "Subscribe a client" link.

4. A dialog box is displayed: choose the client account and click "OK".

5. The page for managing the subscriptions is displayed.




To subscribe a client account to a SaaS site from the client account:

1. Open the page for managing the client account ("Clients .. Manage a client account" from the main menu of the SaaS Administrator).

2. In the table of SaaS sites ("Subscription" section of the page), click the button found in the "Modify" column.

3. The page for managing the subscriptions is displayed.








## Managing a subscription
<a name="managing_subscription_ELTTEXTE000158"></a>


### Subscribing a client account to a pricing
<a name="subscribing_client_account_pricing_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

To subscribe a client account to a pricing:

1. Check the "subscriber" box found below the selected pricing.

2. An edit control is displayed. Enter the number of licenses that must be granted to the client account.

3. Chose the date for the subscription end by clicking the link below the number of licenses. You can specify an end date or choose an unlimited subscription (for a subscription that is automatically renewed for example).

4. Click the "Validate" button at the bottom of the page to save the modifications.








## Managing the licenses
<a name="managing_the_licenses_ELTTEXTE000182"></a>


### For a fixed-price contract
<a name="for_fixedprice_contract_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

The number of users that can benefit from the pricing is unlimited. 

To manage the licenses: 

1. Check all the users for whom the access to this pricing must be granted. 

2. Validate the button at the bottom of the page.





### For a per user pricing
<a name="for_per_user_pricing_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

To manage the licenses: 

1. Check all the users for whom the access must be granted (must not exceed the number of licenses). 

2. Validate the button at the bottom of the page.





