
## Software factory: Implementation
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTTEXTE000111"></a>
To implement the concept of software factory, you must define the actions that will be performed on the project. 

For example: 

- opening project, 

- recompiling the project, 

- run tests, 

- copying the files onto the network, 

- deleting the test files, 

- renaming the directories, 

- etc. 




These different actions are defined in the "Action plan". 

Once created, this action plan is deployed on a computer called "coordinator". This "coordinator" is used to run the different tasks of the action plan, on the build computers (a build computer is a computer dedicated to the compilation of projects). The build computers are managed by a robot. 

**Remark**: The build computers, like the one hosting the coordinator, can be development computers during the unused periods (nights or weekends for example). 

For the development teams working on several projects, the coordinator can manage several build computers simultaneously. 

Then, a status report is automatically generated whenever an action plan is run. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTTEXTE000135"></a>
To implement the software factory on your WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile projects, you must: 

1. [Install the coordinator and the robots of the software factory](../Editeurs/1000019569.md). 

2. [Create an action plan](../Editeurs/1000019570.md). 

3. [Deploy the action plan on the coordinator](../Editeurs/1000019571.md). 

4. [Configure the activation of action plans / Run the action plans](../Editeurs/1000019572.md). 

5. View the status reports or execution. 




Remarks:

- You also have the ability to directly run an action plan from a WINDEV application or from a WEBDEV site with [ActionPlanExecute](../WDLang6/1000021332.md). 

- You also have the ability to configure the execution of an action plan from a WINDEV application or from a WEBDEV site with [ActionPlanConfigure](../WDLang6/1000021598.md). 





