
## Installing OpenOffice
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000107"></a>
WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose a spelling checker:

- Spelling checker in the window editor, page editor and report editor.

- [Spelling checker in the code editor](../Editeurs/9000073.md).  

- [Spelling checker in the edit controls at runtime](../Editeurs/1013146.md).




In any case, OpenOffice (2.0 or later) must be installed on the computer in order for the spelling checker to operate.

This help page explains how to install OpenOffice 2.x and its dictionaries. Indeed, the OpenOffice dictionaries are not installed by default in version 2.x. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing OpenOffice (2.x or later)
<a name="installing_openoffice_2x_later_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
OpenOffice is a free office suite available for download.

**To install OpenOffice**:

1. Download OpenOffice from the following address: [http://www.openoffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org).

2. Install the software.




Caution: Depending on the version used, the dictionaries are not always installed by default.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Installing the OpenOffice dictionaries
<a name="installing_the_openoffice_dictionaries_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>
By default, the dictionaries used by the spelling checker are not installed along with OpenOffice.

**To install these dictionaries (version 2.0)**: 

1. Start OpenOffice Writer 2.0.

2. Select "File .. Wizards .. Install new dictionaries".

3. Follow the different wizard steps and restart OpenOffice.

4. Reboot the computer (if necessary) to take the dictionaries into account.




**To install these dictionaries (version 3.0 and later)**: 

1. Start OpenOffice Writer.

2. Select "Tools .. Language .. Additional online dictionaries".

3. Follow the different wizard steps and restart OpenOffice.





