
## Audits
			



## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
Audits provide a set of features to automatically improve the project quality and performance, and to monitor the conditions in which it is implemented.

Several types of audits are available:

- Static audit.

- UI audit.

- Dynamic audit.

- Telemetry. 




These different types of audits should be used together to take full advantage of them.





## Static audit
<a name="static_audit_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
The static audit performs a detailed analysis of a project and elements.

This audit is performed from the project editor.

See the associated help page to learn how it works: [Static audit](../Editeurs/1014501.md).



## UI audit
<a name="audit_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
The UI audit detects obsolete features used in your applications. 

Starting with version 27, this audit is enabled by default when you open a project. 

This audit directly analyzes windows and pages. 

See the associated help page to learn how it works: [UI audit](../Editeurs/9000207.md).

Remark: The problems detected by the UI audit are also displayed in the static audit. 



## Dynamic audit
<a name="dynamic_audit_ELTTEXTE000189"></a>
The dynamic audit analyzes the behavior of a project during its execution.

This audit can be performed in test mode or in the production environment.

See the associated help page to learn how it works: [Dynamic audit](../Editeurs/1014502.md).





## Telemetry
<a name="telemetry_ELTTEXTE000213"></a>
Telemetry collects and aggregates data about the use of your applications. 

It shows you a report of the deployed applications, so you can improve them. 

See the associated help page to learn how it works: [Telemetry overview](../WDLang1/1410086580.md).


