
## How to install a Universal Windows 10 App application on a tablet
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
The generation of a WINDEV Mobile application for Universal Windows 10 App groups all the project elements (windows, code, etc.) in an archive in order for the application to be deployed on a Windows 10 phone or tablet or on a Windows 10 PC in "tile" mode and to be distributed.

When generating the application, if you have chosen "Generate and deploy the application on the local computer", the application can be directly installed on a Windows 10 tablet. 

For more details: 

- about the creation of a Universal Windows 10 App application, see [Developing Universal Windows 10 App applications](../Editeurs/1410086576.md).

- about the generation of the application, see [Generating a Universal Windows 10 App application](../Editeurs/1410086577.md). 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>


### Copying the generated application onto a tablet
<a name="copying_the_generated_application_onto_tablet_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

To run the test of the generated application on a Windows 10 tablet, you must perform the following operations: 

1. Generate the application by choosing "Generate and deploy the application on the local computer" in the wizard. 

2. Open the EXE directory of the project. a &lt;ProjectName&gt;.appxbundle file was generated. 

3. Transfer this file onto the tablet (via a USB key for example). 

4. Install (if necessary) the certificate that was used to generate the application. 

	- To export the certificate from the certificate manager: 

		- Press [Windows] [F] and enter "Certificate". 

		- Click "Manage the computer certificates". The certificate manager is opened. 

		- Select the "Trust root certification authorities" directory. 

		- Select the requested certificate. 

		- Open the context menu of the certificate and select "All the tasks .. Export". 

		- The export wizard starts. 




- To install the certificate: 

	- Copy the ".cer" file to the tablet. 

	- Right-click to open the context menu of the file and select the "Install certificate" option. The certificate import wizard starts. 

	- In the wizard, select the storage location: "Local computer". Click "Next". 

	- Select "Place all certificates in the following store". 

	- Click the "Browse" button and select the "Trust root certification authorities" store. 

	- Click the "Next" button until the end of wizard. A message is displayed, indicating that the import was successful. 

5. Open the PowerShell interpreter in administrator mode. To do so, in Windows 10: 

	- Display the search menu via [Windows] + [C]. 

	- Click "Find". 

	- In "Applications", enter "Powershell". 

	- Right-click the "Windows PowerShell" result. 

	- In the lower section of the screen, click "Run as administrator". 




6. In the PowerShell interpreter, enter the following command line: 
	
	```txt
	Add-AppxPackage "<Full package path>"
	```

	In this code, &lt;Full package path&gt; corresponds to the name of the &lt;ProjectName&gt;.appxbundle package. 

7. The tile corresponding to the application appears and the application can be used. 





