


## Modeling editor: Managing the styles
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview and principle
<a name="overview_and_principle_ELTTEXTE000127"></a>
The modeling editor proposes an advanced management of styles. This style management allows you to easily define and use preset styles for the objects of a flexible modeling.

**The principle is straightforward**: 

1. **The style book**: As soon as the style of an element is modified in a flexible modeling, a style book is automatically linked to the flexible modeling. This style book is a kind of "style sheet" for the flexible modeling. The file associated with the style book is a file named "Charter_&lt;Modeling name&gt;.wsm". This file is saved along with the flexible modeling and it can be used by several models.

2. **During the first modification of the style of an element, several solutions are available**: 

	- **Create a new style in the modeling**: This option allows you to add a style into the style book. All the elements of the same type will use this new style.

	- **Modify this element only**: This option allows you to modify the selected element only. Therefore, this element is not linked to the style book.




3. **When modifying the style of an element found in the style book, several solutions are available**: 

	- **Overload the style of the element**: In this case, only the current element will be modified. The element will always be linked to the style defined in the style book and the evolutions of the style associated with the element will be automatically taken into account.

	- **Create a new style**: To do so, specify the name of the new style to create in the style book.

	- **Modify the style in the style book**: In this case, the modification will be applied to all the elements that use the same style.

	- **Dissociate the element**: In this case, the style modifications will be applied to the current element only. This element will no longer be linked to the style and it will not take the style changes into account.




4. If several styles are associated with the same type of element, the style of the element can be selected via "Choose a style..." from the popup menu of the element.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Handling the styles and the style book
<a name="handling_the_styles_and_the_style_book_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>


### Associating a style book with a modeling
<a name="associating_style_book_with_modeling_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

To associate a style book with a modeling: 

1. On the "Modeling" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Style book" and select "Select a style book".

2. In the modeling description, select the style book to use.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Associating a style with an element
<a name="associating_style_with_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000055"></a>

To associate a style with an element: 

1. Select the element.

2. Select "Choose a style..." from the popup menu.

3. Select the desired style and validate.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Update the styles of a modeling according to the selected style book
<a name="update_the_styles_modeling_according_the_selected_style_book_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

To update the styles of a modeling according to the selected style book, go to the "Modeling" tab, "General" group, expand "Style book" and select "Refresh styles from the style book".


