


## Creating anchors
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>
The anchors are used to define specific points in a help page.

Then, you will be able to position directly on this point in the help page from a link for example.

The anchors are very useful in long help pages. They allow the reader to easily move within the page.

An anchor can be created:

- on a word or on a group of words.

- on an image.




To easily view an anchor in the help editor of WINDEV, the text corresponding to the anchor is highlighted in light green.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000175"></a>


### Creating an anchor
<a name="creating_anchor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000029"></a>

To create an anchor:

1. Display the help page that must contain the anchor in the help editor.

2. Select the group of words for which the anchor must be created.

3. On the "Modification" tab, in the "Edit" group, click "Anchor". 
	Remark: You also have the ability to select "Insert an anchor" from the popup menu.

4. In the window that appears, specify the name of the anchor. This name is used to identify the anchor when creating links toward this anchor. The selected text is proposed by default.

5. Validate.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Creating a link toward an anchor
<a name="creating_link_toward_anchor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

To create a link toward an anchor:

1. Display the help page that will contain the link in the help editor.

2. Select the group of words for which the link must be created.

3. On the "Modification" tab, in the "Edit" group, click "Link". 
	Remark: You can also select "Insert a link" in the context menu. The link properties window appears.

4. Select the following characteristics:

	- Hyperlink to: "Link to an anchor". 

	- Destination page: select the desired page and anchor




5. Validate.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Getting the name of an anchor
<a name="getting_the_name_anchor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000086"></a>

To display the name of an anchor:

1. Position the mouse cursor on the text of the anchor (highlighted in light green).

2. Double-click the anchor or select "Properties of an anchor" in the context menu. The name of the anchor can be modified.



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Deleting an anchor
<a name="deleting_anchor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000096"></a>

To delete an anchor:

1. Open the help page that contains the anchor in the help editor. 

2. Position the mouse cursor on the word or on the image corresponding to the anchor.

3. Select "Delete an anchor" in the context menu. The anchor is automatically deleted.




**Caution**: The links that point to this anchor are not deleted. Errors may occur during the compilation if the links are not modified.


