


## Analysis: Import files into the analysis (external database, HFSQL files, etc.) 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000200"></a>
WINDEV and WEBDEV allow you to easily handle external databases (Oracle, SQL Server, Access, etc.) via WLanguage functions.

To handle an external database, you must:

1. Import the files (or tables) from the external database into the analysis. During this import, the data can be:

	- stored in its current format. No conversion is required.
			**Remark**: If the database evolves, these evolutions can be taken into account. All you have to do is [synchronize the analysis with the external database](../Editeurs/2011024.md).

	- converted to HFSQL.




2. Generate the analysis.

3. Handle the imported data files via the WLanguage functions. For more details, see [Accessing the databases](../WDLang4/3044202.md).




**Remarks**: 

- You can also convert only data in a specific data file with [WDConver](../WDConver/3512006.md). To perform this operation, the file description must have been imported into the analysis.

- The data model editor allows you to perform the following operations: 

	- Import a data file from an external database into an HFSQL Classic analysis.

	- Import an HFSQL Classic data file into a new HFSQL Classic analysis.









<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to import a data file (or table) into an analysis
<a name="how_import_data_file_table_into_analysis_ELTTEXTE000230"></a>


### Prerequisites for converting a data file (or table) from an external database to an HFSQL data file
<a name="prerequisites_for_converting_data_file_table_from_external_database_hfsql_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

| To perform an import from: | You must own: |
| --- | --- |
| a database managed by ODBC | an ODBC driver |
| a database managed by OLE DB | an OLE DB driver |
| a database managed with the Native SQL Server Connector | Native SQL Server Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native Oracle Connector | Native Oracle Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native AS/400 Connector | Native AS/400 Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native SQL Azure Connector | Native SQL Azure Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native MySQL Connector | Native MySQL Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native Informix Connector | Native Informix Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native DB2 Connector | Native DB2 Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native Sybase Connector | Native Sybase Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native Progress Connector | Native Progress Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |
| a database managed with the Native PostgreSQL Connector | Native PostgreSQL Connector (optional module of WINDEV/WEBDEV) |


<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Importing a data file into an analysis
<a name="importing_data_file_into_analysis_ELTPARAGRAPHE000106"></a>

To import a data file into an analysis: 

1. In the data model editor, open the analysis where the import must be performed.

2. On the "Analysis" tab, in the "Creation" group, expand "Import" and select "Import file/table descriptions...". The data file import wizard starts.

3. Select the desired data source.

4. **If you want to import an external database**:

	- For data sources that use a Native Connector, a connection to the external database is automatically established and associated with the data files imported into the analysis. This connection will be used to handle the data files through programming.

	- Specify the parameters of the connection if necessary: data server, user and password, database, connection name, etc.

	- Specify the data access mode. You can: 

		- access the data in its current format directly. Only the description of the tables is imported into the analysis. No conversion is required.

		- convert the data to HFSQL Classic.




- Select the tables (files) to import.

5. **If you want to import HFSQL Classic data files**:

	- Select the desired HFSQL Classic data file (.FIC extension).

	- Specify the password of this data file if necessary.




6. Validate the import. The current analysis is automatically generated.

7. If the data must be converted to HFSQL Classic:

	- Specify the creation directory of HFSQL Classic data files.

	- Save (if necessary) the description of the conversion (script). This operation creates a ".WDV" file in the specified directory. This script can be re-used by [WDConver](../WDConver/3512006.md).

	- Validate the data conversion.







Remarks: 

- To import an HFSQL classic file into an analysis, drag the file from the Windows File Explorer and drop it onto the analysis editor. The import wizard starts automatically.

- From version 19, you can no longer import Hyper File 5.5 data files. This import can only be performed with WINDEV or WEBDEV 18 (or earlier).





