


## Conditions for using a .NET assembly
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000176"></a>
**To create and use a .NET assembly in WINDEV**, you must: 

- Install the .NET Framework or .NET SDK (depending on the version supported). 

- Install the .NET Runtime for the desired version. 

- Install the "LibC" corresponding to the desired version. 

- [Defining the .NET security level](#NOTE3).

- [Making the DLLs required to run the .NET assembly accessible](#NOTE4).




**Remarks**: 

- By default, when using a .NET assembly, the most recent framework/runtime is used.

- It is necessary to install the Runtime and LibC (standard library) on the computer, according to the .NET assembly to be used. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Install the .NET Framework or SDK
<a name="install_the_net_framework_sdk_ELTTEXTE000200"></a>


### Checking whether .NET framework is installed on the current computer
<a name="checking_whether_net_framework_installed_the_current_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

To check whether the .NET framework is installed on the current computer: 

1. Open the control panel of Windows ("Start .. Settings .. Control panel") and select "Add/Remove programs".

2. Find the ".NET framework" program in the list.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Installing the .NET Framework on the current computer (.NET 2.0, 3.x, or 4.x)
<a name="installing_the_net_framework_the_current_computer_net_20_3x_4x_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

To install the .NET framework on the development computer: 

1. Go to Microsoft's website: [https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks).

2. In ".NET Framework", look for the setup of the desired .NET Framework (2.0, 3.x, or 4.x).

3. Install the desired .NET Framework.

4. Install the corresponding Runtime. 



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Installing the .NET 5.0 SDK
<a name="installing_the_net_50_sdk_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

To install the .NET 5.0 SDK on the development computer: 

1. Go to Microsoft's website: [https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks)

2. In ".NET/.NET Core": 

	- Download and install the desired .NET SDK (64-bit).

	- Download and install the corresponding "Runtime" (64-bit). 







<a name="NOTE3a"></a>
<a name="NOTE3a_1"></a>


## Installing the LibC
<a name="installing_the_libc_ELTTEXTE000236"></a>
The .NET DLL requires the LibC. It does not load on computers where no other application has yet installed LibC. 

The distributable version of LibC can be freely downloaded from the Microsoft website: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170)

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Defining the .NET security level
<a name="defining_the_net_security_level_ELTTEXTE000260"></a>
To define the .NET security level, we advise you to check the Microsoft documentation. The security level must be set to "Full trust". 

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Making the DLLs required to run the .NET assembly accessible
<a name="making_the_dlls_required_run_the_net_assembly_accessible_ELTTEXTE000284"></a>
To make the DLLs required to run the .NET assembly accessible: 

1. If necessary, copy the "WDxxNET.DLL" library (from the "\\Programs" subdirectory of the installation directory):

	- to the directory of the .NET assembly.

	- to the "Assembly" subdirectory of the Windows installation directory.

		- For .NET 2.0, copy wd280net2.dll.

		- For .NET 2.0 (64 bit), copy wd280net2_64.dll.

		- For .NET 4.0, copy wd280net4.dll.

		- For .NET 4.0 (64 bit), copy wd280net4_64.dll.

		- For .NET 5.0, copy wd280net5.dll.

		- For .NET 5.0 (64 bit), copy wd280net5_64.dll.




2. If necessary, copy the WINDEV libraries:

	- to the directory of the .NET assembly.

	- to PATH.







**Reminder**: The PATH lists the directories in which the executables (".EXE" files) and the libraries ("DLL" files) are sought in priority.


