


## Recycling the code windows
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000119"></a>
By default, a single code window is opened for each open element in the editor

For example, a code window displays the code of a button found in a window. If a new code window is opened to display the code of a control found in this window, the window displaying the code of the button is used.

This is called recycling of code windows (default mode).

To use several code windows to display the code of several objects of the same element, simply cancel the recycling of code windows.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000143"></a>


### Implementing the recycling of code windows
<a name="implementing_the_recycling_code_windows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To recycle the code windows of a WINDEV or WEBDEV file (window, report, ...):

1. Display one of the codes of the requested element.

2. On the "Display" tab, in the "Help for edit" group, check "Reuse same code window".



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Use several code windows for the same element
<a name="use_several_code_windows_for_the_same_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

To display several code windows for a WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV element (window, report, ...):

1. Display one of the codes of the requested element.

2. On the "Display" tab, in the "Help for edit" group, uncheck "Reuse same code window".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000173"></a>


### Using several code windows for the same WINDEV/WINDEV Mobile/WEBDEV element (window, report, etc.)
<a name="using_several_code_windows_for_the_same_windevwindev_mobilewebdev_element_window_report_etc_ELTPARAGRAPHE000070"></a>

If the code of the same element (code of a button, code of a control, ...) is requested several times, the corresponding code window is re-enabled.


