


## Creating a skin template from an existing skin template
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
You have the ability to create a skin template from an existing skin template (a skin template supplied by PC SOFT for example). 

This help page described the procedure to follow. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000140"></a>


### Creating a skin template from an existing skin template
<a name="creating_skin_template_from_existing_skin_template_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

**To create a skin template from an existing skin template**: 

1. Close WINDEV. 

2. In the Windows file explorer, copy the directory containing the base skin template to use and rename this directory. The skin templates are found in the "Personal\\SkinTemplates\\WD" directory of the setup directory of WINDEV. 
	For example, copy the "190 Gensteel" directory and rename it to "Custom Gensteel". 
	**Caution**: the directory name must contain no digit before the name. This notation is reserved to the PC SOFT skin templates.

3. Start WINDEV. 

4. In the editor, open the ".sty" file found in the new directory of the skin template. 
	In our example, you must open the "Gensteel.sty" file found in the "Custom Gensteel" directory. 

5. Save the ".sty" file under a new name via "Save as" (Ctrl + Shift + S). The name of ".sty" file must correspond to the name of skin template. Validate the creation of a new skin template by copy. 
	In our example, the "Gensteel.sty" file must be renamed to "Custom Gensteel.sty". 

6. The ".sty" file can be modified according to your requirements. 

7. Close WINDEV. 

8. In the Windows file explorer, delete the former ".sty" file from the directory of skin template. 
	In our example, delete the "Gensteel.sty" file from the "Custom Gensteel" directory. 




Then, you must describe the different windows of the skin template. 

**To describe the different windows of skin template**: 

1. Start WINDEV and don't open any project (close the home page if necessary).

2. Open the "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_0_D" window in the editor. 

3. Open the window description. 

4. On the "Style" tab, in the "Current skin template" area, select the name of the new skin template. 

5. Validate. Answer "Yes" to the request for applying the skin template. 

6. In the window that is displayed, check the options (except for the first one). Validate. 

7. In the "General" tab of the description window, modify the name of the window by replacing the name of the former skin template by the new name. 

8. Validate and save the window. 




These operations can be performed for the following windows: 

- "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_1" (mandatory)

- "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_13" (optional but recommended)

- "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_22" (optional but recommended)

- "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_23" (optional but recommended)

- "&lt;Name former skin template&gt;_24" (optional but recommended)





### Using the new skin template
<a name="using_the_new_skin_template_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The new skin template is automatically proposed when creating windows or projects. 

It can also be applied to a project or to an existing window. In this case, you must check "Apply according to the name of styles" and "Keep the style overrides if possible". 


