


## WEBDEV styles
			



<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000123"></a>
The WEBDEV styles are advanced styles, easier to use than the CSS styles.

A WEBDEV style groups a set of CSS styles and characteristics for a control.

For example, for a button, the WEBDEV style groups:

- The aspect of the button, 

- The images associated with the button, 

- The CSS style associated with the button caption.




A control can be associated with:

- one or more CSS styles. The CSS styles used by the controls are specified in the different elements of the "Style" tab of the description window of control. 

- a WEBDEV style. The WEBDEV style used is selected in the "Style" tab of the description window of the control. 




**Remark**: A WEBDEV style can be modified from the description window of the control. This modification can be: 

- local to the control. In this case, the redefinition of the style is performed for the control only. 

- applied to all the controls that use the WEBDEV style. 




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## WEBDEV styles
<a name="webdev_styles_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>


### Creating and modifying a WEBDEV style
<a name="creating_and_modifying_webdev_style_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

The creation and the modification of a WEBDEV style can be performed: 

- from the description window of the control styles. 

- from the window for managing the WEBDEV styles. For more details, see [Editing the WEBDEV style sheets](../Editeurs/2016014.md). 





### Creation and modification from the description window of control
<a name="creation_and_modification_from_the_description_window_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

The description window of controls is used to manage the style of this control ("Style" tab). Several elements are managed by the "Style" tab. The elements that can use a CSS style are identified by "(CSS)" at the end of their caption. 
The other elements are managed by the WEBDEV style only.

When displaying the "Style" tab, a window appears on the right of the 7-tab window. This window is used to: 

- **find out the name of the WEBDEV style associated with the control**. If no WEBDEV style is associated with the control, "Free aspect: no linked WEBDEV style" is displayed. 

- **find out whether the style characteristics of the control are redefined in relation to the WEBDEV style**. In this case, some style "overloads" exist for this control. These overloads can be listed and deleted if necessary. 

- **get an overall view of the initial style** of the control. 




This window can also be used to perform some actions. You can: 

- **Choose a style**. This option is used to select a WEBDEV style and to associate it with the current control. In this case, the control will be automatically updated when the associated style is updated. 

- **Add this style to the project**. This option is used to create a new WEBDEV style in the project from all the characteristics currently defined for the current control. The control will be automatically associated with this new WEBDEV style. Then, all you have to do is specify the name of the new style. 

- **Refresh the style in the project**. This option appears when modifying the style of the control. This option is used to take these modifications into account in all the controls that use the current WEBDEV style. The WEBDEV style is refreshed. 

- **Dissociate the style**. This option is used to delete the link between the WEBDEV style and the style of the control. If the WEBDEV style evolves, these evolutions will not be taken into account by the control. 



<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Editing the WEBDEV styles
<a name="editing_the_webdev_styles_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

WEBDEV allows you to edit the WEBDEV styles found in the style sheet associated with the project.

For more details, see [Editing the WEBDEV styles](../Editeurs/2016014.md).


