
## Differences according to the test mode of a dynamic project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000122"></a>
The test of a dynamic project can be run:

- in the WEBDEV editor. For more details, see [Running the test of a dynamic project](../Editeurs/2019009.md).

- from the WEBDEV administrator. For more details, see [Testing a dynamic project (administrator)](../Editeurs/2019007.md)




Several differences can be noticed between these two test methods.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## The differences
<a name="the_differences_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>


### Managing cookies
<a name="managing_cookies_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

The management of cookies is operational when running a test from the test page of the administrator only. 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Rights granted on the server
<a name="rights_granted_the_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

- When the test is run from the editor, the rights of the WEBDEV site correspond to the rights of the user who runs the test of the site.

- When the test is run from the test page, the rights used correspond to the rights of the user configured on the Web server. These rights can be more restrictive: some actions may not be allowed (deleting files from the server, ...). 
	



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Managing the programming errors
<a name="managing_the_programming_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

- When the test is run from the editor, the programming errors are displayed in a dialog box and the debugger is automatically started.

- When the test is run from the test page of the administrator, the programming errors are displayed in a browser page. This error page contains the message: "The following message was generated by the application: ...". 
	




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000182"></a>


### Test browser
<a name="test_browser_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

The test browser is the browser defined by default on the current computer.

We advise you to run the test of the project with several browsers.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Start from the administrator
<a name="start_from_the_administrator_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The use of the site test from the test page started by the WEBDEV administrator enables you to run the test of the WEBDEV site in real configuration.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Test engine and deployment engine
<a name="test_engine_and_deployment_engine_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

The operating mode of the test engine of WEBDEV (provided with WEBDEV "Development Version") and the operating mode of the WEBDEV engine installed at the host (provided with WEBDEV "Deployment Version") may slightly differ. The possible differences in operating mode are minor, they are mainly caused by the debugging allowed by the test engine. 


