


## Site test: the different types of tests
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000114"></a>
WEBDEV offers several methods for testing your sites:

- **Test of the entire project**:
	The test of the entire project allows simulating the startup of the site. This makes it possible to test the entire site, even if its development is not complete yet. 
	For more details, see: 

	- [Testing a dynamic project](../Editeurs/2019009.md)

	- [Testing a static project](../Editeurs/2019013.md)




- **Stress test**:
	The WDTestSite tool is used to run stress tests for a dynamic site. WDTestSite allows you to establish several simultaneous connections to a dynamic WEBDEV site. 
	For more details, see: [WDTestSite](../WDTestSite/3538003.md).

- **Test of a single page**: 
	The test of a single page allows you to run the current page in WEBDEV. This allows you to test your project from a given page, or to check if a page runs properly once its development is completed.
	For more details, see: 

	- [Testing a dynamic page (in Session mode or AWP mode)](../Editeurs/2019016.md).

	- [Testing a static page](../Editeurs/2019006.md).




- [Test of a single query](../Editeurs/2019011.md):
	Testing a single query allows you to run the current query in WEBDEV. This allows you to check the operating mode of a query once it has been developed.

- [Test of a single report](../Editeurs/2019015.md):
	Testing a single report allows you to run the current report in WEBDEV. This allows you to test a report once it has been developed. The debugger can be started as soon as a problem occurs.

- [Testing the project step by step](../Editeurs/2019001.md): 
	Testing the project step by step allows you to start the debugger when launching the site. This solution allows you to monitor how the server codes of the site are run.

- [Test and debug of a site found on an application server](../Editeurs/2019032.md):
	You can test and debug a remote site present on any application server. Therefore, the site is directly debugged on the live server.

- [Attach to a session currently run on an application server](../Editeurs/2019032.md):
	You can debug a session currently run on a remote site.





