


## Running the test of a static project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000151"></a>
The test of the entire project allows simulating the startup of the site. This makes it possible to test the entire site, even if its development is not complete yet.

**Remark**: The test of a project can be run regardless of the current element in the editor.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000175"></a>


### Testing a static site (or the static part of a site)
<a name="testing_static_site_the_static_part_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

To run the test of a static site from the editor:

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Test mode" group, expand "Test mode" and select "Debug project from the home page".

2. The editor is automatically minimized and the project is run in the default browser.

3. The home page appears. 




When running the project test, the following processes are run before the first page is opened:

- loading the first page (browser code).

- entering the first control of first page (if this control has an entry process) (browser code).




**Remark**: If your site has no home page, WEBDEV proposes to define a home page for your site. For more details, see [Home page](../WDChamp/2030010.md).

**Caution**: To run the test of a static site, the Web server installed on the development computer must be started. 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Stopping the project test
<a name="stopping_the_project_test_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

Several methods can be used to stop the test:

- 1st method: Close the browser in which the test is run. WEBDEV displays the editor open when the test was started.

- 2nd method: Go back to the editor with the taskbar (or Alt + Tab) and confirm that the test must be stopped. WEBDEV displays the editor open when the test was started.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000205"></a>


### Test browser
<a name="test_browser_ELTPARAGRAPHE000068"></a>

To select the test browser, go to the "Project" tab, "Test mode" group, expand "Test mode" and select "Test browser".

The default browser is defined in the WEBDEV options: 

- On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WEBDEV". 

- Display the "Web" tab.


For more details, see [WEBDEV options](../Editeurs/2036001.md). 


