


## Do not show a message again
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
The environment of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile often displays warning windows.

Very important when you discover a feature, these windows may quickly become useless.

The "Do not show again" option now appears in many windows, allowing you to disable the current warning window.

WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose a centralized management of warning windows common to all projects: this allows you to retrieve the windows that are no longer displayed and to re-enable them if necessary.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000140"></a>


### Do not show a message again
<a name="not_show_message_again_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To no longer display a message, simply check "Do not show again" in the message.

If an answer is expected by the message, the selected answer will be automatically stored and used by default.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Viewing elements marked with "Do not show again" and re-enabling a message
<a name="viewing_elements_marked_with_not_show_again_and_reenabling_message_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

The list of messages marked with "Do not show again" can be viewed at any time:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WINDEV/WEBDEV/WINDEV Mobile".

2. Select the "Do not show again" tab. The list corresponds to the messages that won't be shown again. The name of the affected editor, the caption of the message and the selected answer (if necessary) are displayed for each message.




To re-enable a message, uncheck the requested message in the list and validate.

Remarks:

- This list only displays the elements marked with "Do not show again" that are common to all the projects. When an option is specific to a project, it must be configured in the project. Example: the window asking whether the test must be stopped when going back to the editor: this setting is specific to each project.

- The login window is not taken into account among the elements marked with "Do not show again". This window is configured in the general options of the product. To display the general options, go to the "Home" tab, "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WINDEV/WEBDEV/WINDEV Mobile".





