


## Handling the versions of a window, report, query or project 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000202"></a>



|   |
| --- |
| **Warning for compatibility** |
| This feature is kept for backward compatibility with the former versions.<br><br>We recommend that you use the SCM to manage the different versions of the history for the project elements.<br><br>For more details, see: "[SCM overview](../Editeurs/2038001.md)" and "[Configuring a project for the SCM](../Editeurs/2038002.md)" . |

When creating and developing the different elements of a project (window, query, report, project, and so on), you have the ability to keep several versions of an element. This allows you to save a version before performing important modifications in the element (change the interface of a window for example).

A new element can be created from a version that was saved beforehand.

Therefore, for a window, no need to save the same window under different names according to the version of the window: the window editor automatically manages the different versions and includes them in the backup file of the window. A window corresponds to a ".WDW" file. This file contains the description of the window as well as all the versions saved for this window. The size of the ".WDW" file is proportional to the number of versions saved.

The same principle is applied to the queries, pages, reports and project (WDP, WWP or WPP file depending on the product used).

At any time, you can:

- Save a new version of the current element.

- Open a version of the current element.

- Delete a version of the current element.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000226"></a>


### Saving a version
<a name="saving_version_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

Saving a version is used to keep a backup at a given time.

To save a version of the current element:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Save" and select "Versions". The window for the versions of the current element is displayed.

2. Click the "New" button. A window allows you to type your own comment about the version to create.

3. Validate. The new version is saved and the current element is automatically saved.




**Remark**: The different versions of an element are displayed in descending order (from the most recent version) according to their date and time of backup.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Opening a version
<a name="opening_version_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

Opening a version allows you to create a new element corresponding to the selected version.

To open one of the versions of the current element:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Save" and select "Versions". The window for the versions of the current element is displayed.

2. Select the version to open.

3. Click the "Open" button. A new element is created in the corresponding editor. This element corresponds to the selected version. The name of this new element has the following format: &lt;Element name&gt; &lt;Date and time of version backup&gt;.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Deleting a version
<a name="deleting_version_ELTPARAGRAPHE000097"></a>

Deleting the useless versions reduces the size of the physical file (".WDW" for a window) corresponding to the current element.

To delete a version of the current element:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Save" and select "Versions". The window for the versions of the current element is displayed.

2. Select the version to delete.

3. Click the "Delete" button. The selected version is automatically deleted from the window for version management. This deletion will be effective during the next backup of the element.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000262"></a>


### Opening files after a system lockup
<a name="opening_files_after_system_lockup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000124"></a>

To avoid problems when a system lockup occurs (power outage for example), the editor proposes a system to automatically recover the elements opened in the editor: 

- On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WINDEV/WEBDEV/WINDEV Mobile".

- On the "General" tab, check "Backup for automatic recovery every" and indicate the desired frequency if necessary.




When this system is enabled:

- An automatic backup of opened elements is performed at specific time intervals (every 10 minutes by default).

- When an element is re-opened after a system lockup, an automatic recovery window appears. This window proposes to recover:

	- the element as it was during the last backup performed by the developer, 

	- the element automatically saved by WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile.







The selected version is automatically opened in the editor. The non-selected version is available in the window for managing the versions and it can be opened at any time.


