
## Messaging 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000092"></a>
A secure messaging is included in WINDEV, WINDEV Mobile or WEBDEV.

This messaging allows the different contributors to communicate between themselves.

The messaging is available in several formats:

- in the "Messaging" pane in the editor of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. For more details, see [The "Messaging" pane](../Editeurs/2027021.md). 

- as an independent program: WDBal. For more details, see [WDBal messaging](../Editeurs/1410086599.md). 

- in a tab of Project Monitoring Center. For more details, see [Project Monitoring Center: Managing messages](../CCSuivi/3540726.md)




**Remark**: The messaging is using the information saved in the Control Centers. The contributors taken into account by the messaging are the contributors saved in the different Control Centers. The messages sent by the messaging are also saved in the database of Control Centers. For more details, see [Database of Control Centers](../CCSuivi/3540720.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Featurs of messaging
<a name="featurs_messaging_ELTTEXTE000116"></a>
Regardless of its use mode, the messaging proposes all the features of an advanced messaging: 

- Managing messages: New message, Acknowledgment of receipt, Deleting messages, Transferring messages, ...

- Managing the search: search according to the sender or to the date, search among the outgoing or incoming messages, ...

- Managing folders to store the incoming messages ans to sort them by theme.





