


## WDInst: configuring the characteristics of the files to install 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000199"></a>
WDInst allows you to configure the characteristics of the files to install. You can:

- Specify the destination directory of one or more files.

- Specify the computers on which each file must be installed (network setup).

- Copy and compress one or more files.




By default:

- The destination directory of the files corresponds to the setup directory chosen by the user during the setup.

- The data files (".FIC", ".NDX" and ".MMO") are installed on the server and all the other files are installed in the user computers.

- The files are compressed when the setup program is generated and they are installed on the setup computer.




The characteristics of the files to install are configured in WDInst. To start WDInst, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

Unlike the setup program creation wizard, WDInst offers an advanced management of the characteristics of the files to install.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Specifying the destination directory of one or more files to install
<a name="specifying_the_destination_directory_one_more_files_install_ELTTEXTE000223"></a>
The destination directory was specified when the file is added into the list of files to install.

To modify the destination directory of one or more files:

1. Select the desired file(s) in the "List of setup files" window.
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Display the "Path" tab of the "File description" window.

3. Specify the destination directory of the selected files ("Directory"). The following keywords can be used:

	- **&lt;SetupDir&gt;**: setup directory chosen by the user during the setup.

	- **&lt;SetupDrive&gt;**: drive of the setup directory chosen by the user during the setup.

	- **&lt;Language&gt;**: number of the setup language.

	- **&lt;SetupFile&gt;**: setup directory of data files. WDInst is used to configure this directory. For more details, see [Configuring the directory of data files](../Editeurs/2028017.md).

	- **&lt;DirUserData&gt;**: directory of data for the connected user (especially for a setup performed on a computer running Windows Vista or later). 

	- **&lt;DirCommonData&gt;**: directory of data common to the users (especially for a setup performed on a computer running Windows Vista or later). 

	- **&lt;User&gt;**: User name

	- **&lt;srXXX&gt;**: Constants of [SysDir](../WDLang1/3073026.md). 
			For example: "&lt;SetupDir&gt;\\MyDirectory".




4. If a single file is selected, this file can be renamed during its setup. Simply specify the new name of the file ("File").




**Remark**: The destination directory of a file can also be modified in the "List of setup files" window. To do so, click the "Destination directory" column and enter the new destination directory.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Specifying the computers on which each file must be installed (network setup)
<a name="specifying_the_computers_which_each_file_must_installed_network_setup_ELTTEXTE000247"></a>


### If you are performing a network setup
<a name="you_are_performing_network_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000079"></a>

- On the server only (data files shared by all the users for example).

- On the user computers only (the application executable for example).

- Both on the server and on the user computers (a ".INI" file used to configure the application installed on the server with the default parameters and the applications installed on the user computers with the parameters specific to the users for example).




**To specify the computers on which one or more files must be installed:**

1. Select the desired file(s) in the "List of setup files" window.
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Go to the "Option" tab of the "File description" window.

3. To install the selected files:

	- On the server, check "This file is installed on the server".

	- On the user computers, check "This file is installed on the client".

	- On the server and on the user computers, check "This file is installed on the server" and "This file is installed on the client".







<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Copying and compressing one or more files
<a name="copying_and_compressing_one_more_files_ELTTEXTE000271"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000102"></a>

By default, each file selected for the setup will be:

- Compressed when the setup program is generated.

- Installed on the setup computer.




WDInst allows you to modify this default operating mode.

For example, your setup uses an "autorun" file. This "[autorun](../Editeurs/2028015.md)" starts a program to present the different features of your application.

In this example, WDInst allows you to:

- ***Avoid compressing*** the files used by this overview program. This program can be directly run from the CD. This program will be installed with the application.

- ***Avoid compressing and installing*** the files used by the overview program. This program can be directly run from the CD. This program **will not** be installed with the application.



<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Avoiding compressing one or more files when generating the setup program
<a name="avoiding_compressing_one_more_files_when_generating_the_setup_program_ELTPARAGRAPHE000124"></a>

To avoid compressing one or more files when generating the setup program: 

1. In the "List of setup files" window, select the files that must not be compressed.
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Go to the "Option" tab of the "File description" window.

3. Check "Do not compress the file".



<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Avoiding compressing and installing one or more files on the setup computer
<a name="avoiding_compressing_and_installing_one_more_files_the_setup_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000137"></a>

To avoid compressing and installing one or more files on the setup computer: 

1. Select the desired file(s) in the "List of setup files" window.
	To select several files simultaneously, hold the Ctrl or Shift key down when selecting files.

2. Go to the "Option" tab of the "File description" window.

3. Check "Copy at the root of CD or last diskette".




These files will be copied:

- At the root of the CD if the setup medium corresponds to a CD.

- At the root of the last diskette if the setup medium corresponds to diskettes.

- Into the specified directory if the setup medium corresponds to a single directory.

- Into the last created sub-directory if the setup medium corresponds to a directory cut to the size of a diskette.





