


## WDInst: configuring the directory of the data files and the directory of the files of user groupware 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000227"></a>
The setup editor WDInst allows you to add additional options into the setup program. These additional options allow the user to specify:

- the directory of the data files of the application.

- the directory of the files of user groupware.




These options can also be added using the setup program creation wizard.

Reminder: To start WDInst, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Allowing the user to configure the directory of data files
<a name="allowing_the_user_configure_the_directory_data_files_ELTTEXTE000251"></a>


### Directory where the data files are created
<a name="directory_where_the_data_files_are_created_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

By default, the data files are created in the directories specified when describing files in the analysis. However, these directories can be modified:

- when creating the executable of the application.

- through programming with [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md).

- when installing the application. The directory for creating the data files will be selected by the user.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Setting during the setup
<a name="setting_during_the_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

If your application uses data files, you can ***allow the user to set the location of the data files*** when installing the application.

The directory selected by the user will be automatically used for all the data files created by the application. It is directly stored in the executable, without using the registry or a parameter file.
Remark: This directory will be proposed by default when installing the application updates.

This option allows you to avoid programming the location of data files (with [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) for example).

**Reminder**: In any case, the directory for creating the data files is defined according to the following priority order:

1. Directory specified by [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md).

2. Directory selected when installing the application (if this option is proposed to the user).

3. Directory selected when creating the executable.

4. Directory specified when describing the files in the analysis.




Therefore, the directory defined by [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md) has priority over all the other directories.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Special case: data files are installed with the application
<a name="special_case_data_files_are_installed_with_the_application_ELTPARAGRAPHE000091"></a>

These data files are installed in the directory specified in WDInst (destination directory). 
For a network setup, these data files will be installed in the "&lt;ExecutableName&gt;" subdirectory of the application setup directory on the server.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Allowing the user to configure the directory of data files
<a name="allowing_the_user_configure_the_directory_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

To allow the user to configure the location of the data files: 

1. Select "Setup parameters .. HFSQL files".

2. Click the "Connections" tab. 

3. Select "Edit location of data files". 

4. Click the "Parameter" button. 

5. Check "The values entered during the setup (specify the default values)".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Allowing the user to configure the directory of the files of user groupware
<a name="allowing_the_user_configure_the_directory_the_files_user_groupware_ELTTEXTE000293"></a>


### Directory for creating the data files of the User Groupware
<a name="directory_for_creating_the_data_files_the_user_groupware_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>

If your application uses the [User Groupware](../Editeurs/2018001.md), two categories of data files are supported:

- ***the data files used to identify the users***. These data files can be common to several applications.

- ***the data files used to manage the rights granted to the users on the different windows of the application***. These files are specific to the application.




For more details, see [The files of the user groupware](../Editeurs/2018002.md).

By default, these data files are created in the "GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application setup directory. However, this directory can be modified. The table below presents the different methods proposed by WINDEV to modify this directory.

|   | Data files used to <br>identify the users | Data files used to <br>manage the rights granted to the users |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **How to modify the creation directory of these files?** | <br><br>- when configuring the User Groupware (caution: this directory is used for the tests of the application only).<br><br>- when creating the executable of the application.<br><br>- when installing the application. This directory is selected by the user.<br><br><br> | <br><br>- when installing the application. This directory is selected by the user.<br><br><br> |
| **What is the priority order when defining the creation directory of these files?** | <br><br>1. The directory selected by the user when installing the application (if the setup program allows the user to select this directory).<br><br>2. The directory selected when creating the application executable.<br><br>3. The default directory ("GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application's setup directory).<br><br><br>Therefore, the directory selected by the user has priority over the other directories. | <br><br>1. The directory selected by the user when installing the application (if the setup program allows the user to select this directory).<br><br>2. The default directory ("GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application's setup directory). Therefore, the directory selected by the user has priority over the default directory.<br><br><br> |


<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Allowing the user to configure the directory of the data files of user groupware
<a name="allowing_the_user_configure_the_directory_the_data_files_user_groupware_ELTPARAGRAPHE000171"></a>

To allow the directory of the data files of user groupware to be configured: 

1. Select "Setup parameters .. HFSQL files".

2. Check "Configure the directory of the groupware files during the setup".





