
## Manual deployment of a dynamic site
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000259"></a>
WEBDEV proposes several methods for deploying a dynamic site:

- [deployment by FTP](../Editeurs/2028019.md).

- [deployment by physical media](../Editeurs/2028090.md), [by stand-alone physical media](../Editeurs/2028091.md).

- [deployment by package](../Editeurs/2028089.md).




In some cases, these solutions may be inefficient and the site must be installed manually.

This help page presents the different operations to perform.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## "Manual" deployment for a first setup
<a name="manual_deployment_for_first_setup_ELTTEXTE000283"></a>


### Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

1. [Transferring files by FTP](#NOTE2_2).

2. [Creating the alias corresponding to the site on the server and the link for the short URLs](#NOTE2_3).

3. [Adding the application into the administrator of "WEBDEV application server"](#NOTE2_4).



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Transferring files by FTP
<a name="transferring_files_ftp_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

The following files must be transferred to the Web server:

- The &lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB directory (and its sub-directories), directory of images and JavaScript files.

- The content of the "EXE" subdirectory of the development project, or at least the &lt;SiteName&gt;.WDL file (don't forget to create a library beforehand in order for this file to be updated)

- The directories of the "home pages" for the different languages: FR, UK (for the versions earlier than WEBDEV 11 only)



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Creating the alias (or virtual directory) and the link for the short URLs
<a name="creating_the_alias_virtual_directory_and_the_link_for_the_short_urls_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

To perform this operation, you must be located on the server (or you must be able to control it remotely)

You must create an alias (or virtual directory) named &lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB on the Web server (IIS, Apache). This alias must "point" to the directory of the same name that was transfered.

With IIS 7 (or later) and Apache 2.2 (or later), a link must also be created between the name of the site and the WEBDEV application server for managing the [short URLs](../Editeurs/2030058.md).

For more details, see the procedures for configuring the dynamic WEBDEV sites with the following servers:

- [Apache 1.3.x, Apache 2.0.x](../Editeurs/2037011.md)

- [Apache 2.2](../Editeurs/2037013.md)

- [FrontPage 97 and 98](../Editeurs/2037009.md)

- [OmniHTTPD Professional](../Editeurs/2037003.md)

- [IIS version 2 or 3](../Editeurs/2037002.md)

- [IIS version 4](../Editeurs/2037010.md)

- [IIS version 5](../Editeurs/2037007.md)

- [IIS version 6](../Editeurs/2037008.md)

- [IIS version 7 and 7.5](../Editeurs/2037012.md)

- [Domino](../Editeurs/2037006.md)



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Adding the dynamic site into the administrator of "WEBDEV application server"
<a name="adding_the_dynamic_site_into_the_administrator_webdev_application_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

To perform this operation, you must be located on the server (or you must be able to control it remotely)

**To add the WEBDEV site into the administrator of the WEBDEV Application Server**, you must:

1. Select the "Sites" tab in the administrator.

2. Click the "Add" button.

3. Select the library of the site (&lt;SiteName>.WDL).



<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Remark
<a name="remark_ELTPARAGRAPHE000111"></a>

The configuration of a WEBDEV site can be added or checked via the registry (REGEDIT). The parameters of a site are grouped in the server registry in the following key: 

[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\Software\\PC Soft\\WebDev\\28.0\\Applications\\SITENAME]

where SITENAME is the name of the relevant site.

The different values are:

| Value name | Type | Meaning |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PROJECTNAME | String | Project name |
| PROJECTPATH | String | Project setup path |
| VERSION | String | Version deployed |
| VIMAGEDIR | String | Name of virtual directory of images |
| HFPATH | String | Path of the HyperFileSQL data files<br><br> |
| AS400 | DWORD | 1 if the site uses the Native AS/400 Connector |
| LOCKFORUPDATE | String | 1 if the site is locked |
| LOGDIR | String | Path of log files |
| MAXCONNECTAPP | String | Maximum number of connected users |
| MAXRECONNECTAPP | String | Maximum number of users connected with the same address |
| TIMEOUT_NORQ | String | Maximum duration (in seconds) of a request before disconnection |



<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## "Manual" deployment for an update
<a name="manual_deployment_for_update_ELTTEXTE000337"></a>
All you have to do is perform the "Transferring the files by FTP" step of the "manual" deployment for a first setup.

**TIP**: In order to "disrupt" the site the least amount of time, we advise you to transfer your files into new directories in order to have a directory containing the current site and a directory containing the new site. You will only have to "lock" the site in order to rename the two directories (and to move them).

**CAUTION**: This operation does not start the automatic modification of the structure of the data files if this structure has evolved. If the file format was changed, you must retrieve the files locally, perform the structure modification then re-send the modified files to the server.


