


## Selecting the application or the files to install 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
WINDEV includes a wizard for generating a setup program:

- to install a WINDEV application.

- to install other files. Installing goodies for example (images, videos, ...).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing a WINDEV application
<a name="installing_windev_application_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
The setup program creation wizard allows you to create the setup program of a WINDEV application. By default, if the wizard does not ask for the name of the application to install, the application to install corresponds to the project opened in WINDEV.

If the wizard asks for the name of the application to install, all you have to do is specify the project (".WPP" file) to install.

The base directory of the selected application is automatically retrieved by the wizard. This directory corresponds to the "EXE" directory of the project to install. By default, all the files found in this directory except for the data files (".FIC", ".NDX" and ".MMO") will be selected.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Installing other files
<a name="installing_other_files_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
The setup program creation wizard (started from WDInst, the setup editor) allows you to create a setup program associated with no application. This option allows you to provide new video files or new image files to the users for example (in a setup independent of the setup of the main application).

**To generate a setup program associated with no application**:

1. In WINDEV, close the current project: on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Close" and select "Close project".

2. Open the setup editor WDInst: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDInst".

3. Select "File .. New".

4. Don't specify any project (".WDP" file).

5. Click the "Advanced" button.

6. Select the base directory.
	This directory is used to define the structure of the directories to create on the user computers.
	For example, if the base directory is "C:\\MyFiles" and if the files to install are located in "C:\\MyFiles\\MyImages\\BackgroundImages", these files will be installed in the "MyImages\\BackgroundImages" subdirectory of the setup directory by default.

7. Select the files to install in the following steps of the wizard.





