
## Support for the setup program 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Select media
<a name="select_media_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
When creating the setup program via the wizard, you have the ability to choose the options regarding the setup support.

The setup program is generated in a directory in order to be copied onto different supports.

By default, the setup program is generated in the "Install" subdirectory of your application.

The different supports are as follows:

- ***Multiple directories***, cut to the size of diskettes (not available for the compact setups)
	The files of the setup program are grouped into several subdirectories. The size of the files found in each subdirectory does not exceed the size of a diskette (1.44 MB by default). Then, the content of each sub-directory can be copied onto a diskette.

- ***Single directory***
	The setup program is created in a single directory.

- ***Self-extracting executable***
	The setup program is created as a self-extracting executable. When this executable is urn on the user computers, the setup program is automatically decompressed ans started.
	This solution is recommended if the setup program is distributed via Internet.

- ***Support with autorun***
	The setup program is created in a single directory in order to be copied onto a CD.




Remark: If **Clear the directory before generating the setup** is checked, the generation directory of the setup will be cleared before generating the new setup program. This option allows you to remove the useless files from the generation directory of the setup program.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Security
<a name="security_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
Several options used to secure the setup are proposed: 

- **Protect the setup by password**: You have the ability to protect the setup by password (not available for the compact setups). In this case, you must specify the password to use. This password will be requested when running the setup program.

- **Sign the setup with the certificate**: To guarantee the integrity of the setup pack, you have the ability to sign the setup. All you have to do is select the certificate to use. The wizard automatically proposes the certificates available on the current computer, in the personal store of Windows certificates. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Advanced parameters
<a name="advanced_parameters_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
The advanced parameters are used to modify the different parameters (directory used, size of a diskette, ...) for the selected support.

To help you choose the support adapted to your setup mode, see the [Summary table for installing a WINDEV application](../Editeurs/2028005.md).

The "Advanced options of the installer" button is used to define: 

- the options for managing the framework of the installer (with customization of the installer). 

- the options for the UAC of the installer. 




For more details, see [Advanced installer options](../Editeurs/2028108.md). 


