
## Configuring the automatic modification of data files 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000122"></a>
The automatic data file modification updates the description of data files on user computers.

For more details, see [Automatic data file modification](../WDLang4/3044195.md).



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the automatic data modification with the wizard
<a name="configuring_the_automatic_data_modification_with_the_wizard_ELTTEXTE000152"></a>
To configure the automatic data modification with the wizard, select the application (.exe file) for which you want to run the modification.

If the data files are password-protected, or if they are in an HFSQL Client/Server database, you will need to specify the passwords: 

1. Click the "Advanced" button.

2. Select the analysis in WINDEV format (".WDD" file) associated with the application.

3. If necessary, specify the following for each file in the analysis:

	- the password of the file (if any) in the analysis. 
			**Remark**: To change this password, select "Change password" and enter the new password.

	- if the application uses a WINDEV 5.5 analysis that was migrated, specify:

		- the source analysis in WINDEV 5.5 format (".WDA" file).

		- the name of the file in the analysis in WINDEV 5.5 format.

		- the file password (if it exists) in the analysis in WINDEV 5.5 format.







This information (except for the passwords) is automatically displayed.

**Remarks**:

- During the update, the data files automatically found are:

	- the files found in the setup directory of the application.

	- the files listed in the ".REP" file. For more details, see the help about the [management of .REP files](../WDLang4/3044186.md).




- The wizard suggests running a "silent" automatic data modification: no configuration window will be shown to the end user. 

- To allow the user to configure the automatic modification, you can use WDInst to include the "Advanced options" button in the setup program.





