


## Database parameters (Setup program)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000390"></a>
The setup program creation wizard takes into account the setup of the database with the application and proposes various optional elements. 

The additional modules for using a database allow you to add additional options to the setup program. The user will be able to access the advanced setup parameters. 

You can:

- [Configure the synchronization of deployed data (automatic modification of data files)](#NOTE2_1).

- [Index HFSQL files during setup](#NOTE3_1).

- [Include the setup of an HFSQL Client/Server server](#NOTE4_1).

- [Configure the location of application data files](#NOTE5_1).

- [Deploy the data files on an HFSQL server](#NOTE6_1).

- [Set the location of the groupware files during setup](#NOTE7_1).

- [Include MDAC in the setup](#NOTE8_1).

- [Install the ODBC driver for HFSQL](#NOTE9_1).

- [Install the OLEDB provider for HFSQL](#NOTE10_1).

- [Install and configure the modules for the assisted universal replication](#NOTE11_1).






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the synchronization of deployed data (automatic modification of data files)
<a name="configuring_the_synchronization_deployed_data_automatic_modification_data_files_ELTTEXTE000420"></a>
If the option "Configure the synchronization of deployed data (auto modif.)" is checked, the automatic data modification will be performed when installing the current application.

The automatic data modification is used to update the description of the data files found on the user computers. For more details, see:

- [The automatic data modification](../WDLang4/3044195.md).

- [Configuring the automatic modification of data files](../Editeurs/2028043.md).




**Remarks**: 

- if this option is checked, the automatic data modification will be performed (whether it is required or not). The automatic modification will have no effect on the application if it is performed on data that is already updated.

- By default, a "silent" automatic data modification is performed.. To enable the end user to make changes to the automatic data modification, you need to use the setup editor . 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Indexing HFSQL files during setup
<a name="indexing_hfsql_files_during_setup_ELTTEXTE000444"></a>
The option "Index HFSQL files during setup" is used to reduce the size of the setup program by deleting the index files from the setup program. These index files will be automatically re-created on the end user's computer during the application setup.

You have the ability to select the files for which the index files must be deleted.

**Remarks**:

- This feature is not available for the password-protected data files.

- This feature is available for the HFSQL Classic data files only. For HFSQL Client/Server files, the configuration is performed via "Deploy data files on an HFSQL server".




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Including the setup of an HFSQL server
<a name="including_the_setup_hfsql_server_ELTTEXTE000468"></a>
The option "Include the setup of an HFSQL server" is used to redistribute the setup of an HFSQL Client/Server server. For more details, see [Installing an HFSQL Client/Server server](../Editeurs/2028081.md).

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Configuring the location of application data files
<a name="configuring_the_location_application_data_files_ELTTEXTE000492"></a>
The option "Configure the location of application data files" is used to define the location of the data files found in the application. 

The following connections are listed:

- The connection named "***Default location***": This connection corresponds to the location of the HyperFileSQL Classic files found in the analysis and associated with no connection. By default, the data files are created in the directories specified when describing files in the analysis.

- The connections defined in the analysis.




The connection information used by the application will be found in the ".WX" file found beside the executable.

The "Parameters" button is used to configure these connections if necessary:  

- If the option "All the connections use the same parameters" is checked, a single connection can be configured.

- If the option "Each connection is configured independently" is checked, all the connections can be configured one by one.




The screen for configuring the connection allows you to:

- use the values given in the project analysis.

- use the values given in the.WER file (for a universal replication).

- use new values. In this case, you have the ability to define a new connection with all characteristics.

- use the values entered during the setup. In this case, the user will specify the data location when the application is installed. The default values proposed to the user can be typed in the configuration screen.

- store the server parameters. This option is available only if the setup of an HFSQL server was included in the application setup.



<a name="NOTE5_2"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000125"></a>

- If the parameters of the connection are modified between two setups, you have the ability to force the new parameters via "The above parameters will replace the values entered during a previous setup".

- The ***SetupFile*** variable allows you to use the path of data files for HFSQL Classic files. The path used is the one defined in the HFSQL Classic properties of a connection to an HFSQL Classic database (ISAM).



<a name="NOTE5_3"></a>


### Installing an application that creates HFSQL Classic data files
<a name="installing_application_that_creates_hfsql_classic_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000133"></a>

By default, the data files are created in the directories specified when describing files in the analysis. However, these directories can be modified:

- when creating the executable of the application.

- through programming with [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md).

- when creating the setup program (setting of the connection named "***Default location***")

- during the setup. The directory for creating the data files will be selected by the user.




If your application uses data files, you can ***allow the user to set the location of the data files*** when installing the application. The directory selected by the user will be automatically used for all the data files created by the application.

**Remark**: This directory will be proposed by default when installing the application updates. This option allows you to avoid programming the location of data files (with [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) for example).

**Reminder**: In any case, the directory for creating the HFSQL Classic data files is defined according to the following priority order:

1. Directory specified by [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md).

2. Directory selected when installing the application (if this option is proposed to the user).

3. Directory selected when creating the executable.

4. Directory specified when describing the files in the analysis.




Therefore, the directory defined by [HSubstDir](../WDLang4/3044028.md) or [HChangeDir](../WDLang4/3044168.md) has priority over all the other directories.
<a name="NOTE5_4"></a>


### Installing an application and its HFSQL Classic data files
<a name="installing_application_and_its_hfsql_classic_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000179"></a>

These data files are installed in the directory specified in the setup program creation wizard.

For a network setup, these data files will be installed in the "&lt;ExecutableName&gt;" subdirectory of the application installation directory on the server. This directory can be changed if necessary in the connection settings screen named "***Default location***".

<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## Deploying the data files on an HFSQL server
<a name="deploying_the_data_files_hfsql_server_ELTTEXTE000534"></a>
When creating the setup program of the application, you can also deploy the HFSQL Client/Server data files on the desired server via "Deploy the data files on an HFSQL server".

For each data file of the application, the "Properties" button allows you to specify:

- the connection that must be associated with this data file. 

- the current location of the data file to install (location of the source data file).

- whether the index must be copied or not. If the index is not copied, it will be automatically rebuilt during the setup. This option is used to limit the size of the setup program when the index file is quite large.




**Remark**: The current location of the data files can correspond to the data files found on an accessible server or to the data files copied locally.

<a name="NOTE7"></a>
<a name="NOTE7_1"></a>


## Setting the location of the groupware files during setup
<a name="setting_the_location_the_groupware_files_during_setup_ELTTEXTE000558"></a>


### User Groupware after version 18
<a name="user_groupware_after_version_18_ELTPARAGRAPHE000205"></a>

If your application uses the [User Groupware](../Editeurs/1000021152.md), the "Set the location of the groupware files during setup" option allows you to set the location of the User Groupware data files. 

By default, these data files are created in the "GPW_&lt;Application name&gt;" subdirectory of the installation directory of the application. However, this directory can be modified. The table below presents the different methods proposed by WINDEV to modify this directory.

**How to modify the creation directory of these files?** 

- When configuring the User Groupware (caution: this directory is used for the tests of the application only).

- When creating the executable of the application.

- When installing the application. This directory is selected by the user.




**What is the priority order when defining the creation directory of these files?**

1. The directory selected by the user when installing the application (if the setup program allows the user to select this directory).

2. The directory selected when creating the application executable.

3. The default directory ("GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application's installation directory).


Therefore, the directory selected by the user has priority over the other directories.

To allow users to set the location of the User Groupware files, check "Set the location of the groupware files during setup".


### User Groupware before version 18
<a name="user_groupware_before_version_18_ELTPARAGRAPHE000231"></a>

If your application uses the [User Groupware](../Editeurs/2018001.md), two categories of data files are available:

- ***The data files used to identify the users***. These data files can be common to several applications.

- ***The data files used to manage the rights granted to the users on the different windows of the application***. These files are specific to the application.




For more details on these files, see [User Groupware files](../Editeurs/2018002.md).

By default, these data files are created in the "GPW_&lt;Application name&gt;" subdirectory of the installation directory of the application. However, this directory can be modified. The table below presents the different methods proposed by WINDEV to modify this directory.

|   | Data files used to <br>identify the users | Data files used to <br>manage the rights granted to the users |
| --- | --- | --- |
| How to modify the creation directory of these files? | <br><br>- When configuring the User Groupware (caution: this directory is used for the tests of the application only).<br><br>- When creating the executable of the application.<br><br>- When installing the application. This directory is selected by the user.<br><br><br> | <br><br>- When installing the application. This directory is selected by the user.<br><br><br> |
| What is the priority order when defining the creation directory of these files? | <br><br>1. The directory selected by the user when installing the application (if the setup program allows the user to select this directory).<br><br>2. The directory selected when creating the application executable.<br><br>3. The default directory ("GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application's installation directory).<br><br><br>Therefore, the directory selected by the user has priority over the other directories. | <br><br>1. The directory selected by the user when installing the application (if the setup program allows the user to select this directory).<br><br>2. The default directory ("GPW_&lt;ApplicationName&gt;" subdirectory of the application's installation directory).<br><br><br>Therefore, the directory selected by the user has priority over the default directory. |


To allow users to set the location of the User Groupware files, check "Set the location of the groupware files during setup".

<a name="NOTE8"></a>
<a name="NOTE8_1"></a>


## Including the MDAC in the setup
<a name="including_the_mdac_the_setup_ELTTEXTE000588"></a>
If your application uses a database via OLE DB, the following elements must be installed on the user computers:

- An OLE DB provider ("MSDAORA", "OraOLEDB.Oracle", "SQLOLEDB", ...).

- MDAC (Microsoft Data Access Component) version 2.6 or later.




If MDAC is not installed, only the connection to the OLE DB database will be possible: it will not be possible to read the tables (a message indicates that this interface is not supported).

**Caution**: The distribution license of MDAC specifies that the executable must be downloaded (from Microsoft's website) in order to get the rights to redistribute it with an application. Before performing the operations described in the following paragraphs, you must download the MDAC executable to the current computer.

The MDAC executable can be downloaded from Microsoft's website at the following address (valid at the time of writing this document):: [http://www.microsoft.com/data](http://www.microsoft.com/data)

**To distribute MDAC to the users:**

1. Check "Include MDAC in the setup".

2. Specify the path of the MDAC executable. A link allows you to download the MDAC executable from Microsoft's website.




Remark: The size of the setup program will be increased if MDAC is included in the setup. The setup program of MDAC will be the one found on the developer computer.

<a name="NOTE9"></a>
<a name="NOTE9_1"></a>


## Installing the ODBC driver for HFSQL
<a name="installing_the_odbc_driver_for_hfsql_ELTTEXTE000612"></a>
To handle an HFSQL database from a non-WINDEV application, the ODBC driver on HFSQL must be installed and configured on the user computer. For more details, see [The ODBC driver on HFSQL](../WDLang4/3044179.md).

**Remark**: The ODBC driver on HFSQL can only be used to **read and write** in an HFSQL database from a non-WINDEV application.

**To include the ODBC driver in the setup program**:

1. Check "Install the ODBC driver for HFSQL".

2. In the following steps of the wizard, enter the name used to identify the HFSQL database when using the ODBC driver on HFSQL.




<a name="NOTE10"></a>
<a name="NOTE10_1"></a>


## Installing the OLEDB provider for HFSQL
<a name="installing_the_oledb_provider_for_hfsql_ELTTEXTE000636"></a>
To handle an HFSQL database from a non-WINDEV application, the ODBC provider on HFSQL must be installed on the user computer.

**Remark**: The ODBC provider on HFSQL can be used to **read and write** in an HFSQL database from a non-WINDEV application.

**To include the OLE DB provider in the setup program**, check "Install the OLE DB provider for HFSQL".

<a name="NOTE11"></a>
<a name="NOTE11_1"></a>


## Install and configure the modules for the assisted universal replication
<a name="install_and_configure_the_modules_for_the_assisted_universal_replication_ELTTEXTE000660"></a>
If your application contains a description file for the assisted universal replication (.WER file), the setup wizard automatically proposes to configure the setup of the assisted universal replication.

For more details, see [Installing an application that uses assisted universal replication](../Editeurs/2028095.md).


