


## Creating and deploying a setup program: How to?
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000229"></a>
Creating the setup program allows you to deploy a WINDEV application on the end-user computers.

Creating the setup program consists in specifying all the parameters required for installing and using your WINDEV application.

**WINDEV allows you to create a full setup program**. This setup program can be used to install:

- a WINDEV application.

- other files. Installing goodies for example (images, videos, ...).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Different types of setup for a WINDEV application
<a name="different_types_setup_for_windev_application_ELTTEXTE000253"></a>
Several types of setup are available:

- ***Standard setup***: The setup program is independent of the application. All the files required by the application are installed on the client computers. To take an update into account, it must be run on each client computer.

- ***Compact setup***: Performs a standard setup. However, the setup program is smaller because it does not use specific DLLs and some customization options are not available.

- ***Setup with automatic update (network setup)***: This setup is used to:

	- manage the automatic update of the application installed on the network.

	- get the characteristics of the users connected to the application at a given time.

	- configure the location of the files required by the application. Different cases can be managed, for example:

		- Install all the application files on the server.

		- Install the database on the server and the files required to run the application (".EXE", ".WDL", ".DLL", etc.) on each client computer.

		- Installing part of the database on the server and another part on each user computer. The files required to run the application (".EXE", ".WDL", ".DLL", etc.) are also installed on each client computer.




- ***Setup from a Private Store***: This setup allows you to install the application in a Private Store. This type of setup allows: 

	- users to access a portal with the different applications available. 

	- automatically updating applications downloaded from the Private Store.







<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to create a setup program?
<a name="how_create_setup_program_ELTTEXTE000277"></a>
To create a setup program allowing you to:

- ***deploy a WINDEV application***, you can:

	- use [the setup program creation wizard](../Editeurs/2028062.md) from WINDEV: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Setup procedure" and select "Create setup procedure". This wizard allows you to easily create the three types of setup programs.

	- use [the setup editor (WDInst)](../Editeurs/2028042.md): on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDInst". This editor is used to customize the setup program.




- ***provide other files***, you must use [the setup program creation wizard](../Editeurs/2028062.md), started from WDInst ("File .. New" from WDInst).
	Reminder: To start WDInst, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".




To view the different options for configuring the setup program proposed by the wizard and/or by WDInst, see the [Different configuration options proposed by the wizard and WDInst](../Editeurs/2028016.md).

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## How to install a WINDEV application?
<a name="how_install_windev_application_ELTTEXTE000301"></a>


### Principle for the standard or compact setup
<a name="principle_for_the_standard_compact_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

To install the application, simply launch the application setup program on the client computer. The files required by the application are installed in the specified setup directory.

To install an application update, run the update setup program on the client computer. The update replaces the necessary files in the application.

Remark: The setup program proposes: 

- a "Fast setup": in this case, the application is installed according to preset parameters. No information is asked to the user.

- a "Custom setup": in this case, the user follows the different steps of the setup wizard to customize the setup parameters. 




Summary table: [How to install an application developed with WINDEV?](../Editeurs/2028005.md)
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Principle for the network setup
<a name="principle_for_the_network_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000135"></a>

To install your application:

1. Start the server setup program from a local computer (Install_server.exe). The files required by the reference application are installed in the specified setup directory. The reference application corresponds to a client setup program.

2. Run the client setup program from each user computer. The files required by the client application are installed in the specified setup directory.




To install an update of your application:

1. Start your setup update on the server. The update replaces the necessary files of the reference application. You can save these replaced files.

2. When the application is started from a user computer, the application update is automatically proposed.




Remark: The setup program proposes: 

- a "Fast setup": in this case, the application is installed according to preset parameters. No information is asked to the user.

- a "Custom setup": in this case, the user follows the different steps of the setup wizard to customize the setup parameters. 




Summary table: [How to install an application developed with WINDEV?](../Editeurs/2028005.md)

**Automatic check for updates**
The application regularly checks if a network update is available. 
Reminder: the check time can be set from WDAdminExe or with [AppChangeParameter](../WDLang1/1000017260.md). 

If there is an available update, a Windows notification will be displayed only if the user is using the application.

- **For optional updates**, the notification message is as follows: 
	An optional update for '&lt;Application name&gt;' is available. To install this update, close and restart the application.

- **For mandatory updates**, the notification message is as follows: 
	A mandatory update for '&lt;Application name&gt;' is available. To install this update, close and restart the application.


These messages cannot be modified or configured. 

The check for available updates is always active. 
**Remarks**: 

- If the user has chosen not to install an optional update at application startup, that version will not be proposed by the notification mechanism. 

- Mandatory update notifications are displayed every 5 minutes if the update has not been installed. 

- Optional update notifications are not displayed again if the update is not installed. It will only appear next time the application is started.






Management of notifications: 

- If the application has an icon in the notification area, the icon will be used to highlight the notification. 

- If the application does not have an icon in the notification area, an icon will be created to highlight the notification. A different icon will be used depending on whether the update is optional or mandatory.


[AppDetectUPDAvailable](../WDLang1/1410087705.md) allows you to customize the automatic check for updates.
<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Silent installation
<a name="silent_installation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000170"></a>

To silently install a WINDEV application (without displaying the different screens the setup program), pass the /SILENT parameter to the INSTALL.EXE program.
Remark: This option cannot be used with an MSI setup or with a compact setup.

Remark: By default, the silent installation does not create the corresponding shortcuts. To force the creation of shortcuts, simply pass pass the /FORCEICONE=1 parameter after /SILENT in the command line. 
For example: 

```txt
INSTALL.EXE /SILENT /FORCEICONE=1
```



