
## Configuring the assisted universal replication
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
If your application uses assisted universal replication via a .WER file, WDInst proposes to configure the setup to install the different tools required for this type of replication.

The assisted universal replication is configured in "Setup settings .. Configure the assisted universal replication".

The different steps of this configuration are as follows:

- [Operating mode of replication](#NOTE2_1).

- [Location of the master database](#NOTE3_1).

- [Location of master database in online mode](#NOTE4_1).

- [Location of the local database](#NOTE5_1).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Operating mode of replication
<a name="operating_mode_replication_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>
A WINDEV application can:

- Not use the replication.

- Use the replication and always operate in online or replicated mode.

- Use the replication and always operate in replicated mode.




This information can be modified (or not) during the setup.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Location of the master database
<a name="location_the_master_database_ELTTEXTE000181"></a>
The master database can be:

- described in a .WER file. To do so, select the corresponding .WER file via the ".WER file" button. The .WER file can be edited directly.

- accessible via a replication server. The information about the replication server must be entered via the "Server" button. This information affects the address of the server, the username and the password. You can also:

	- "Publish the replication parameters on the server". This option makes the replication immediately usable.

	- "Allow these parameters to be modified during the setup": the user of the application will be able to modify the parameters of the replication server.

	- "Use these values even if they have been customized during a previous update".




- configured during the setup only. The different parameters will be asked to the user who is installing the application.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Location of master database in online mode
<a name="location_master_database_online_mode_ELTTEXTE000205"></a>
If the application offers the ability to use the online mode, you must define the master database that will be used for the online mode. The "Master database" button is used to define the characteristics of the connections used by the application.

If the application uses an HFSQL Classic database, a connection is automatically created.

You can: 

- Use the connections defined in the analysis: The parameters of the connections defined in the analysis will be used to access the master database.

- Use the connections defined in the .WER file: The parameters of the connections defined in the .WER file will be used to access the master database.

- Define the connection parameters now: The connection parameters are defined in the next step of the wizard.

- Ask for the connection parameters during the setup: The parameters of the connections are defined by the person who installs the application.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Location of the local database
<a name="location_the_local_database_ELTTEXTE000229"></a>
By default, the local database of the application is created in the "Documents and Settings\\All Users\\Application Data\\&lt;Application Name&gt;" directory. The "Local database" button is used to modify this directory.

Remark: This directory is intended to operate with all types of systems (including in Windows Vista or later). We advise you not to modify this path.


