


## The setup editor WDInst
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000265"></a>
WDInst is a setup editor used to define the setup parameters of your application.

To discover the different elements in the WDInst UI, see [WDInst interface](../Editeurs/2028022.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Reminder
<a name="reminder_ELTTEXTE000289"></a>
You have the ability to create and/or configure the setup program of the current application:

- via the **setup editor**. 
	To start the setup editor, go to the "Tools" tab, "Utilities" group and click "WDInst".

- via the [setup program creation wizard](../Editeurs/2028062.md). 
	To start the wizard, go to the "Project" tab, "Generation" group, expand "Setup procedure" and select "Create setup procedure".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Configuring the setup program
<a name="configuring_the_setup_program_ELTTEXTE000313"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

Two cases may occur when you configure the setup program:

- the setup program was **never** configured before.
	The setup editor WDInst proposes a default setup.

- the setup program was **already** configured with the wizard or with WDInst and you have:

	- generated the setup program.

	- saved the description of the setup program ("&lt;ApplicationName&gt;.WDF" file).







The setup editor WDInst automatically retrieves all the options specified during the last setting.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### No setting was performed
<a name="setting_was_performed_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

If the setup program of the current application was never configured before, the setup editor WDInst proposes a default setup with the following parameters:

- the files to install correspond to the files found in the "EXE" directory of the project.

- no group of files is created.

- no component is created.

- the setup will be a standard setup (single computer).

- the shortcut of the executable will be created in the "Start" menu and on the desktop of the setup computer.

- the user will be able to start the application at the end of setup.

- "French" and "English" are supported.

- the appearance of the setup program corresponds to the default appearance (blue gradient background).

- no slide will be displayed.

- no license will be displayed.

- no "Readme" file will be proposed.

- the summary of the setup will be displayed before the setup is started.

- the automatic modification of the data files will be performed if necessary.

- if the application is associated with an HFSQL database, the HFSQL optimizer will be installed.

- the backup of the replaced files is proposed to the users.




To generate the setup program of the current application, select "Setup .. Generate".
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### The setup program was already configured
<a name="the_setup_program_was_already_configured_ELTPARAGRAPHE000106"></a>

If the setup program of the current application was already configured, the setup editor WDInst retrieves all the options specified during the last setting.

To generate the setup program of the current application, select "Setup .. Generate".

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Customizing the default setup program: the different steps
<a name="customizing_the_default_setup_program_the_different_steps_ELTTEXTE000349"></a>
The setup editor WDInst is used to:

- manage the files to install and find out the main characteristics of these files.

- configure the setup program to generate (type of setup, interface, distribution medium, ...).

- customize the features proposed by the setup program (start the setup program in several languages, run a command line at the end of setup, ...).




The default setup program can be customized in several steps:

- **Step 1**: [Managing and handling the files to install](../Editeurs/2028021.md).
	Adding and deleting files, configuring the characteristics of the files and configuring the setup of the files.

- **Step 2**: [Associating the files to install with groups](../Editeurs/2028010.md).

- **Step 3**: [Selecting the languages supported by the setup](../Editeurs/2028025.md).

- **Step 4**: [Customizing the interface of the setup program](../Editeurs/2028030.md).
	Configuring the wallpaper and the slides.

- **Step 5**: [Selecting the type of setup to generate](../Editeurs/2028049.md).
	Standard setup or network setup.

- **Step 6**: [Creating the components to propose several setup models](../Editeurs/2028032.md).
	Minimum setup, full setup or custom setup.

- **Step 7**: [Selecting the additional information that will be displayed during the setup](../Editeurs/2028053.md).
	"ReadMe" file, license agreement and summary of setup.

- **Step 8**: [Configuring the setup of an HFSQL Client/Server application](../Editeurs/2028063.md).

- **Step 9**: [Configuring the automatic modification of data files](../Editeurs/2028018.md).

- **Step 10**: [Configuring the assisted universal replication](../Editeurs/2028034.md)

- **Step 11**: [Selecting the additional programs and the external tools that will be installed on the user computers](../Editeurs/2028024.md).

- **Step 12**: [Describing the program that will be run at the end of the setup](../Editeurs/2028013.md).

- **Step 13**: [Entering the modifications that will be performed in the "Autoexec.BAT" file, in the ".INI" files and in the registry](../Editeurs/2028013.md).

- **Step 14**: [Configuring the directory of data files and the directory of data files for the user groupware](../Editeurs/2028017.md).

- **Step 15**: [Configuring Reports & Queries](../Editeurs/2028088.md). 

- **Step 16**: [Translating the uninstaller](../Editeurs/2028087.md).

- **Step 17**: [Erase patches](../Editeurs/2028102.md).

- **Step 18**: [Configuring the assisted universal replication](../Editeurs/2028034.md). 

- **Step 19**: [Configuring an "autorun" for a setup program on CD](../Editeurs/2028015.md).

- **Step 20**: [Choosing the setup media](../Editeurs/2028067.md) and [Generating the setup program](../Editeurs/2028067.md).


**Remark**: These steps do not necessarily have to be performed in this order. All the steps (except for the generation of the setup program) are optional.


