


## SEO of a WEBDEV site
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000227"></a>
In order for your site to get visitors, the Web users must be able to find it. The easiest way to find a site is to use a search engine. The Web user enters keywords and the search engine proposes all the sites that correspond to the search criteria.

Therefore, your site must optimized in the search engines.

To help you, WEBDEV offers:

- **to optimize each static and Active WEBDEV Page**: a description and a set of keywords can be defined for each page. These keywords will allow users to access the page directly. You can also choose not to optimize a page.

- **A search engine optimization wizard**, which indicates the improvements that can be made on each page for SEO purposes.

- **to include or use a specific page as home page**. This solution allows you to optimize the dynamic pages for example, by associating keywords with the home page. This home page contains all the keywords that will allow users to find your site. 




**Remark**: To improve the SEO in your pages, use [Active WEBDEV Pages](../WDChamp/3539009.md). To optimize a dynamic site (in session mode), use:

- a home page.

- a section of the site in static mode. The static site will be used for the seo and will start the site in session mode.

- a section of the site in AWP mode. The AWP site will be used to perform the SEO and to start the site in session mode.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000251"></a>


### Using (or not) a static or Active WEBDEV Page for SEO
<a name="using_not_static_active_webdev_page_for_seo_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

To optimize a static or Active WEBDEV Page of your site:

1. Open the page description window.

2. In the "Details" tab, a specific section allows you to configure the page SEO. You can:

	- Disable SEO for the current page.

	- Allow SEO for the current page by associating expressions and keywords ("Edit expressions and keywords" button).






<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Optimizing a page and entering its keywords
<a name="optimizing_page_and_entering_its_keywords_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

To optimize a static or Active WEBDEV Page of your site:

1. Open the page description window.

2. In the "Details" tab, a specific section allows you to configure the page SEO. In this area, click "Edit expressions and keywords".

3. **In the "Description" tab of the SEO window**, type the page description. In most cases, this description appears when displaying the result of a search performed by a search engine. Tips:

	- Use short sentences, limit the number of words (up to 200 characters)

	- This description must entice Internet users to visit the page.
			**Remark**: This description can be modified dynamically using the [Description](../Proprietes/1000017164.md) property.
			The description associated with a page is written in the HTML header of the page (&lt;META NAME="Description" CONTENT="..."&gt; tag). 




4. **In the "Keywords" tab of the SEO window**, type the keywords associated with the page. These keywords (or expressions) will be used to optimize the page: if the user enters one of these keywords, the search engine will propose the corresponding page. The keywords are typed as follows: type the first keyword and press Enter to type the next one.
	Tips:

	- The first three keywords are the most important ones. Use common keywords and pertinent keywords.

	- The keywords must not be repeated.

	- Use variations (singular/plural, noun/verb, etc.).
			Remark: These keywords can be dynamically modified using the [Keywords](../Proprietes/1000017163.md) property.




5. Validate the page SEO and description windows.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Using the SEO wizard
<a name="using_the_seo_wizard_ELTPARAGRAPHE000090"></a>

To help you improve the SEO of your sites and pages, WEBDEV proposes an SEO wizard. This wizard can be used for a specific page or for all the pages of your project. This wizard analyzes the composition of the site pages and indicates the possible changes to improve the ranking of the pages in the search engines.

Examples of optimizations detected by the wizard:

- The page title must be specified.

- At least three keywords must be specified for the page.

- The page description must be specified.

- The alternative text must be typed for all controls that propose it (by using the keywords defined for the page if possible).

- ...




To start the SEO wizard on a page: 

1. Open the desired page in the editor.

2. On the "Page" tab, in the "SEO" group, click "Optimize".

3. The SEO wizard starts. Double-click a suggestion to perform the corresponding optimization. The "Refresh" button is used to update the list of suggestions.




To start the wizard to optimize all the pages of the site: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Web" group, expand "SEO" and select "SEO wizard".

2. The SEO wizard starts. Double-click a suggestion to perform the corresponding optimization. The "Refresh" button is used to update the list of suggestions. The results can be sorted by page or by type of advice.




**Remark**: The following error can be displayed by the SEO wizard: "The IDM of XXXX keyword is set to yy%". The IDM corresponds to the index of density for the keywords. It is the ratio between the number of appearances of the keyword in the page and the total number of words in the page. 
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Including a home page in your site
<a name="including_home_page_your_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000142"></a>

If no home page is associated with your project, you can:

- choose a home page among the static pages of your site.

- create a new static page that will become the home page of the site.




For more details on your site's home page, see [Creating a home page for your site](../WDChamp/2030010.md).
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Registering your site in search engines
<a name="registering_your_site_search_engines_ELTPARAGRAPHE000157"></a>

Two types of search engines are available:

- **the "Automatic" search engines:**
	These search engines are based on automatic programs for analyzing the content.
	**How can I get my site optimized?**
	An "Optimize your site" link is often available for this type of search engine. Simply specify the address of the site and the email of the Webmaster. The site will be automatically monitored (according to keywords and to to the site content) and optimized.

- **the "Phone book" search engines:**
	These search engines optimize sites that have been previously checked by human beings.
	**How can I get my site optimized?**
	An "Optimize your site" link is often available for this type of search engine. 
	In most cases, the SEO procedure is as follows: 

	1. Choosing a category for the site (leisure, culture, etc.). 

	2. Filling out a questionnaire about the site to optimize: Internet address of the site, email of the WebMaster, description of the site, etc.

	3. Once your questionnaire has been sent, your site will be evaluated by a person from the company that manages the directory. This person will list your site if they find its content interesting.








