
## Creating an executable without library 
			






	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>09 (34)</B></B>, the operating mode described in this help page is kept for backward compatibility with version 5.5. 
Creating an executable without library is not recommended. 





<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>




## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000111"></a>
When creating an executable, you can choose not to use a library or not to include all the elements of the project in the library.

This option can be used for example:

- for projects that present the outline of an application,

- for internal applications that require quick updates. 




In this case, the files corresponding to the different elements of the project as well as the associated compiled files must be included in the directory of the executable.

**Remark**: It is necessary to create stand-alone windows and reports (i.e., to include the compiled code in the window or report file).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Stand-alone windows and reports
<a name="standalone_windows_and_reports_ELTTEXTE000135"></a>


### Making the current window stand-alone
<a name="making_the_current_window_standalone_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

To make the current window stand-alone, check "Include the compiled code" in the "Details" tab of the window description.

When saving the window, the compiled code will be automatically included in the WDW file of the window.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Making the current report stand-alone
<a name="making_the_current_report_standalone_ELTPARAGRAPHE000044"></a>

To make the current report stand-alone, check "Include the compiled code" in the "Details" tab of the report description.

When saving the report, the compiled code will be automatically included in the WDE file of the report.

**Remark**: If the report is modified, you must create the executable again to reflect changes.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Elements to install for an executable without library
<a name="elements_install_for_executable_without_library_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
If your executable has no library, the following elements must be installed in the directory of the executable:

1. **For windows (WDW files) and reports (WDE files)**:

	- if stand-alone windows and reports have been created, copy them to the directory of the executable.

	- otherwise, copy the corresponding WDW and WDE files to the directory of the executable as well as the WCW and WCE files (located in the CPL subdirectory of your project).




2. **For classes (WDC files), sets of procedures (WDG files) and the project (WDP file)**: copy the corresponding WDC, WDG and WDP files to the directory of the executable as well as the WCC, WCG and WCP files (located in the CPL subdirectory of your project).

3. **For queries, copy the corresponding WDR file** to the directory of the executable.





