


## Exporting elements to a directory 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000109"></a>
All the elements handled by a project (window, report, classes, set of procedures, queries, ...) can be transferred from a project to another one. The export enables you to copy the elements of the current project into another directory (and therefore into another project).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>


### Exporting elements from the current project
<a name="exporting_elements_from_the_current_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

To export elements from the current project: 

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Save" and select "Export .. To a directory".

2. Select the directory where the data files must be exported to. A checkmark is displayed in front of the selected files.

3. In the displayed list of WINDEV elements select the elements to export. 
	Remark: This list contains the name of the file, the description of the file (if it exists) and the current location of the file.

4. Validate.
	The selected files are automatically exported into the specified project directory.




**Remark**: To include the exported elements in the components of a project, use the [list of project components](../Editeurs/2030033.md).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>


### Dependency of the files
<a name="dependency_the_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

The elements are exported with their dependencies: all the files linked to the exported file will also be exported. For example, a window is automatically exported with its background image.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Estimating the size of exported files
<a name="estimating_the_size_exported_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

The "Calculate" button is used to estimate the size of the exported files. This size takes into account the size of the element to export and the size of the files depending on this element.


