


## Installing 64-bit WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000102"></a>
This help page presents the configuration required to install WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile in 64-bit mode.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Why installing a 64-bit version?
<a name="why_installing_64bit_version_ELTTEXTE000126"></a>
It is recommended to install the 64-bit version of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile (except if your projects use an unavailable feature, see list below). This setup is recommended if you are using projects that include a large number of elements (more than 1500). 

The limitations for installing a 64-bit version are as follows: 

- The Native Progress and Sybase Connectors are not available in 64-bit mode. 

- The connections from the data model editor are established in 64-bit mode. If a connection is performed toward an external database, the client or ODBC driver or OLE DB provider of this database must also be installed in 64-bit mode.

- The former Hyper File 5.5 analyses cannot be imported. 

- The former RAD compatible with version 11 is not available. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>
The following configuration is required for the development computer: 

- 4 GB or RAM (8 GB or more recommended).

- 2 GB of disk space (4 GB for a full setup: the software includes hundreds of examples).

- running 64-bit Windows.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>
The format of projects and project elements is independent of the compilation mode of the editors. All the source elements (projects, windows, reports, classes...) can be opened by a 32-bit editor then by a 64-bit editor (and conversely).

**A 32-bit version and a 64-bit version of the same software should not be installed on the same development computer**.

However, if the same development configuration is hosting a 32-bit version and a 64-bit version of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile:

- the two versions must be installed in different folders as proposed by default. 

- the two versions must not be run simultaneously.





