


## Computer renamed or changed
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>
During the development phase, you may have to change the computer used for development (change computer, rename the computer, ...).

The SCM must be informed of this modification: indeed, the SCM stores in the repository the name of the computer from which the different operations are performed. This information must be updated in the SCM repository whenever a rename operation is performed.

**Caution**: If you change computer without performing these operations, a message will indicate that the element is checked out on another computer (the former computer).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000162"></a>


### Taking the change of computer name into account
<a name="taking_the_change_computer_name_into_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

To take the change of computer name into account:

1. Start the SCM administrator: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator".

2. In the SCM administrator, on the "Tools" tab, in the "Mobility" group, click "Rename or change computer".

3. Specify the new name of the computer.

4. The "Test" button is used to evaluate the consequences of the rename operation.

5. Validate. The rename operation is performed. You have the ability to re-use your projects found in the SCM.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Taking the change of computer into account
<a name="taking_the_change_computer_into_account_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

To take the change of computer into account:

1. When changing computer, the projects used by the SCM must be copied to the new computer in the same directories. For example if on computer 1, the projects shared in SCM are found in "D:\\MySCMProjects", you need to copy them to computer 2 in the "D:\\MySCMProjects" directory.

2. On the new computer, start the SCM administrator: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator".

3. In the SCM administrator, on the "Tools" tab, in the "Mobility" group, click "Rename or change computer".

4. Specify the new name of the computer.

5. Validate. The change of computer is taken into account. The projects stored in the SCM can be opened again.





