


## SCM administrator: Merge of repositories
			





## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>
The merging of repositories makes it possible to combine projects from several repositories into a single repository.

Several cases may occur:

- Full import of the repository.

- Partial import of the repository (selection of one or several projects).






## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>


### Import projects from another repository
<a name="import_projects_from_another_repository_ELTPARAGRAPHE000017"></a>

To import projects from another repository: 

1. Check in all the projects.

2. Start the SCM administrator: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator". The selected SCM repository will be the target repository. The SCM administrator must be opened in Admin mode. 
	**Caution**: This operation must be performed by a single developer.

3. In the SCM administrator, select the source SCM repository: on the "Home" tab, in the "Repository" group, click "Import a repository". A wizard allows you to specify the import parameters.

4. Select the type of import. Two types of imports are available: 

	- full import 

	- partial import. In case of partial import, you have the ability to select the projects to import. 




5. Save the repositories. It is possible to save both "target" and/or "source" repositories.




**Remarks**: 

- It is possible to import a repository regardless of the type of project (WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile).

- Importing a repository may take some time.

- Importing a repository takes [shared elements](../Editeurs/2038021.md) into account. 

	- In the case of a complete import of the source repository, all shares are recreated. 

	- In the case of a partial import, shares are recreated for all projects imported at the same time.








