


## SCM administrator: Managing branches
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>
The SCM (Source Code Manager) administrator allows to you manage the branches of the different projects found in SCM.

A branch is a copy of the project performed at a given time. For example, a branch can be created to stabilize a version sent to the end users. The developers can work both on the branch and on the elements scheduled for the forthcoming version. For more details, see [Managing branches](../Editeurs/2038016.md).

**Remark**: The SCM administrator can also be used to perform maintenance operations on the database, ... For more details, see [Overview of SCM administrator](../Editeurs/2038008.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Managing branches
<a name="managing_branches_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>


### Creating a branch
<a name="creating_branch_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

To create a branch:

1. Select the requested project in the SCM administrator.

2. On the "Directories and projects" tab, in the "Branches" group, click "Create a Branch".


The branch creation wizard starts. For more details, see [Creating a branch](../Editeurs/2038016.md).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Retrieving modifications performed in a branch
<a name="retrieving_modifications_performed_branch_ELTPARAGRAPHE000055"></a>

To retrieve the modifications made to a branch: 

1. Select the requested project in the SCM administrator.

2. On the "Directories and projects" tab, in the "Branches" group, click "Get changes".


The wizard for retrieving the modifications made to a branch starts. For more details, see [Retrieving the modifications made to a branch](../Editeurs/2038016.md).
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Deleting a branch
<a name="deleting_branch_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

To delete a branch: 

1. Select the requested branch in the SCM administrator.

2. Select "Delete" in the context menu of the branch. 


CAUTION: Deleting a branch from SCM is not recommended. This operation cannot be undone. 


