


## SCM administrator: Managing the repository
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000469"></a>
The SCM administrator (Source Code Manager) allows you to directly handle the source codes of different projects included in the Source Code Manager. It allows you to:

- manage repositories (create or connect to a repository).

- manage the files and directories found in a project of the repository (Add, delete, rename files and directories).

- manage the different files of the repository (check-out, check-in, share, etc.).




The SCM administrator can also be used to perform maintenance operations on the repository, ... For more details, see [Overview of SCM administrator](../Editeurs/2038008.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Managing the repository
<a name="managing_the_repository_ELTTEXTE000493"></a>


### Connecting to a repository
<a name="connecting_repository_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

To connect to a repository: 

1. In the SCM administrator, on the "Home" tab, in the "Repository" group, click "Connection ".

2. Specify the characteristics of the repository (location, user, etc.). This accessed repository can be: 

	- a local repository (HFSQL Classic). 

	- an HFSQL Client/Server SCM repository. 

	- an SCMDrive repository (paid turnkey solution, on a shared server). To create this repository, log in to [SCMDrive](https://pcscloud-drive.net/UK/SCMDrive/index.awp). 

	- a PCSCloud repository (paid turnkey solution, on a dedicated server). To create this repository, a cloud account must be created. For more details, log in to [PCSCloud](https://pcscloud.net/UK/cloud_development.awp).




3. Validate. If the SCM repository is accessible, you are automatically connected to this SCM repository.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Creating a repository
<a name="creating_repository_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

To create an SCM repository: 

1. In the SCM administrator, on the "Home" tab, in the "Repository" group, click "New repository".

2. Specify the characteristics of the SCM repository: repository in network share mode or repository in HFSQL Client/Server mode. For more details, see [Creating a repository.](../Editeurs/2038005.md)

3. Validate. If the SCM repository is accessible, you are automatically connected to this SCM repository.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Managing files and directories
<a name="managing_files_and_directories_ELTTEXTE000523"></a>


### Managing files
<a name="managing_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000092"></a>

The SCM administrator is used to:

- **Add a file**: on the "Home" tab, in the "File" group, click "Add". This option allows you to add a file found in the local project into the reference project.

- **Rename a file**: on the "Home" tab, in the "File" group, click "Rename". This option allows you to rename the file currently selected in the SCM administrator. This file is located in the reference project (found on the SCM server).
	Remark: This operation must be done with great care. Indeed, the renamed file will not be available to the SCM users until a full project synchronization is performed. We advise you to rename the file in the local project then to update the reference project.

- **Delete a file**: on the "Home" tab, in the "File" group, click "Delete". This option allows you to delete the selected file from the SCM administrator. This file is located in the reference project (found on the SCM server).
	Remarks: 

	- This operation must be done with great care. Only files that are not used by the project can be deleted. Otherwise, deleting a file from the SCM may trigger problems with the project.

	- For shared files, only the specified file is deleted: shared copies in other folders are kept.







**To restore a deleted file**: 

1. Open the properties of the project directory in the Source Code Manager ("Properties" in the context menu of the directory).

2. Select the "Deleted elements" tab: you have the ability to restore the deleted files.




Remark: You can also delete or rename a file by selecting it and by choosing the corresponding option in its context menu. 
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Managing directories
<a name="managing_directories_ELTPARAGRAPHE000153"></a>

The SCM administrator is used to:

- **Add an existing directory**: on the "Home" tab, in the "Directory" group, click "Import a local directory". This option allows you to import a directory found in the local project into the reference project for example.
	Remark: Don't use this option to add a project into the SCM. To add a project to the SCM, see [Configuring a project for the SCM](../Editeurs/2038002.md).

- **Create a new directory**: on the "Home" tab, in the "Directory" group, click "New". This option allows you to create a new directory in the reference project.
	Remark: You can also create a directory via the context menu of the SCM explorer ("Create a new directory"). 

- **Delete a directory**: on the "Home" tab, in the "Directory" group, click "Delete directory". This option can be used to delete a directory from the SCM repository for example. You also have the ability to delete a project from the SCM (to do so, delete the corresponding directory). The deleted directory is the directory selected in the SCM explorer.
	Caution: This operation cannot be canceled.
	Remark: You can also delete a directory via the context menu of the SCM explorer ("Delete").

- **Rename a directory**: on the "Home" tab, in the "Directory" group, click "Rename". This option allows you to rename a directory in the SCM repository. The directory used is the one selected in the SCM explorer.
	Caution: This operation cannot be canceled.
	Remark: You can also rename a directory via the context menu of the SCM explorer ("Rename").

- **Define the associated local directory**: on the "Directories and projects" tab, in the "Local directory" group, click "Change local directory ". This option allows you to specify the name of local directory associated with the project found in the SCM repository for the current user.
	Remark: You can also define the associated local directory via the context menu of the SCM explorer ("Define the associated local directory").

- **Move a directory**: You can also move a directory via the context menu of the SCM explorer ("Move..."). Simply specify the new location of the selected folder in the SCM. This operation takes branches into account. If the moved directory corresponds to a branch, the project at the new location will still correspond to the same branch.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Managing favorites
<a name="managing_favorites_ELTPARAGRAPHE000246"></a>

The SCM administrator allows you to define "favorite" projects. 

To delete a favorite porject: 

1. Select the desired project on the left section of the SCM administrator.

2. Select "Add to favorites" in the context menu.

3. The project appears in the list of favorite projects in the left section of the SCM administrator.




Remark: You also have the ability to use the menu of the SCM administrator to define a favorite project: on the "Directories and projects" tab, in the "Favorites" group, click "Add to favorites".

To delete a favorite: 

1. Select the desired project in the favorites area on the left section of the SCM administrator.

2. Select "Delete" in the context menu.



<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Restoring a project version
<a name="restoring_project_version_ELTPARAGRAPHE000278"></a>

The SCM administrator allows you to restore a specific version of a project (corresponding to an earlier version of the project, stored in the history).

To restore a version of a project: 

1. Select the desired project on the left section of the SCM administrator.

2. Select "History" in the context menu. The "History of a directory" window is displayed.

3. In the table, select the desired version of the project.

4. Click the "Save as" button.

5. Select the directory where the specified version of the project must be saved.

6. Validate. The desired version of the project is automatically saved in the specified directory.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Managing the files of the SCM repository
<a name="managing_the_files_the_scm_repository_ELTTEXTE000565"></a>
The SCM administrator allows you to perform all the check-in, check-out operations, ... You also have the ability to display the history of the modifications made to each element, see the differences or share the elements among several projects. 
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Check-in and check-out operations, ...
<a name="checkin_and_checkout_operations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000301"></a>

The SCM administrator can be used to perform the following operations:

- Get the latest version of the selected file.

- Check out the selected file to the local directory of the project.

- Check out the selected file for test

- Check in the selected element.




All these operations can be performed in WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile. We advise you to perform these operations directly from the relevant project.
<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### History and differences
<a name="history_and_differences_ELTPARAGRAPHE000315"></a>

To see **the history** of changes made to a file (check-in and check-out operations), you must: 

- select the desired file. 

- on the "Files" tab, in the "File" group, click "History ".


The window that is displayed is used to:

- Get an earlier version.

- Save an earlier version under a new name.

- Compare two versions.

- Merge.




To compare the local version with the version found in the SCM repository: 

- select the desired file. 

- on the "Files" tab, in the "File" group, click "Compare".



<a name="NOTE4_4"></a>


### Sharing files
<a name="sharing_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000361"></a>

The SCM administrator allows you to share files between several projects (sharing sets of procedures, sharing analyses, etc.).

This operation can be performed in the SCM administrator only.

It is possible to:

- **Share a file**: on the "Files" tab, in the "Share" group, click "Share". This option is used to share the selected file with another project found in SCM.

- **Unshare a file**: on the "Files" tab, in the "Share" group, click "Delete share". This option is used to unshare the file currently selected in the SCM administrator. This file is located in the reference project (found on the SCM server). The file will no longer be shared between the different projects of SCM. The file remains in each project. 
	Remark: This operation must be done with great care. Indeed, if the share is deleted, the files will evolve independently in each project.




**How to share from the SCM administrator**: 

1. Start the SCM administrator: on the "SCM" tab, in the "Repository" group, expand "Manage" and select "SCM administrator".

2. In the SCM administrator:

	- Select the files to share in the directory of the source project.

	- Drag and Drop these files to the directory of the second project that shares these elements.

	- Accept to share the files.







**Important**: the SCM administrator does not allow you to share the dependencies of elements. The share of files should be implemented from the interface of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile. For more details, see [Sharing SCM files](../Editeurs/2038002.md).


