
## Docker image of the WEBDEV Application Server
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>
From with version 24, a Docker container with the WEBDEV Application Server can be found in Docker Hub:
[https://hub.docker.com/r/windev/webdev](https://hub.docker.com/r/windev/webdev)


Setting up a Linux WEBDEV Application Server becomes extremely simple: 1 line to type or script!
Depending on the type of server (10 or unlimited simultaneous connections), you will be asked for the server's serial number.

Remark: Only the 64-bit version is available. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>


### Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

- The site must be [suitable for Linux deployment](../Editeurs/9000055.md). The option "Enable compilation errors for Linux compatibility" must be enabled. This option is available in the "Compatibility" tab, in the description window of the current configuration.

- The Linux distribution used does not matter. However, to use the Docker container that contains the WEBDEV Application Server, it is necessary to be familiar with Docker and, in particular:

	- know how to install a new container from the Docker image of the WEBDEV Application Server,

	- manage at least one volume required for data persistence,

	- manage network configuration inside Docker. For example, you must be able to handle the case where one or more containers with the WEBDEV Application Server image need to access data hosted by an HFSQL Client/Server server.










### Running the image (creation of the container)
<a name="running_the_image_creation_the_container_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

- The name of the preset image is: 
	
	```txt
	"windev/webdev:<Version>"
	```


- You must activate the application server by passing the serial number on the command line. The parameter to pass must be in the following format: 
	
	```txt
	--configuration="<Serial number>-<Activation key>"
	```
If this parameter is not specified,a 10-connection application server will be used.  

- To persist applications and their data (e.g. if the image changes), you must: 

	- Use a volume. The command to create a volume: 
			
		```txt
		"docker volume create <VolumeName>"
		```


	- Mount the volume into the container on 
			
		```txt
		"/var/lib/WEBDEV/<major.minor version>/"
		```





- Both a WEBDEV account and a Linux account named "webdevuser" will be created:

	- A password will be generated and assigned to them.

	- It is important to see the container output: 

		- by performing an interactive start with "-it",

		- by consulting the container logs with the syntax: 
						
			```txt
			"docker logs <container ID>"
			```








Example of command line: 

```txt
docker run -p 80:80 -v WB:/var/lib/WEBDEV/24.0/ 
windev/webdev:FR240054h --configuration="<Serial number>-<Activation key>"
```



### Notes (important)
<a name="notes_important_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

- If a new container uses data from an existing volume (for example, data from a previous container after an image update: WEBDEV (minor) version change:

	- This operation is possible only with the same major version.

	- Caution: A new password is created. This password is applied to the "webdevuser" WEBDEV and Linux accounts, so you need to change the password for future site deployments.




- To connect to the remote administrator "http[s]://&lt;server&gt;/WDAdminWeb":

	- The WEBDEV deployment account: 
		```txt
		webdevuser/<Password generated and displayed>
		```





- The library libqtgui5 is installed: the generated images and printouts are available. However, only one font is installed.

- Reminder of basic Docker commands:

	- Stop a container: 
			
		```txt
		"docker stop <ID>"
		```


	- Restart a container: 
			
		```txt
		"docker start <ID>"
		```


	- Caution! No interactive start: 
			
		```txt
		"docker start -i <ID>"
		```
This sends the SIGWINCH signal that Apache interprets as a stop command.








