


## Control Centers: Working in offline mode
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>
When working on a laptop or on an offline computer, you may want to continue working with the data in the Control Centers (Project Monitoring Center, etc.).

WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile allow you to manage an "Offline" mode for the Control Centers. This mode is used to disconnect from the database of the Control Centers and to copy this database locally on the computer. Your data remains accessible even in offline mode.

During the reconnection, the data modified locally is automatically updated on the network database. If a conflict occurs (task modified by several users for example), the network database has priority over the other computers.

**Remark**: The following tools can be used in offline mode: Project Monitoring Center, Quality and Version Monitoring Center, Messaging. 

**Caution: the offline mode is not available if you use the Control Centers with an HFSQL Client/Server database.**



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Working in offline mode
<a name="working_offline_mode_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>
To work in "Offline" mode: 

1. On the "SCM" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Remote work" and select "Disconnect to work offline".

2. In the wizard, select "I want to disconnect from the control center shared database".
	Caution: This wizard also manages the disconnection from the repository for the current project. For more details, see [SCM: Working in Offline mode](../Editeurs/2038013.md).

3. Select the different options for the local database:

	- The additional data to add

	- The path of the database (we advise you to keep the proposed path).




4. You are now using the local database for all your control centers.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Reconnecting
<a name="reconnecting_ELTTEXTE000190"></a>
To reconnect to the database of Control Centers:

1. On the "SCM" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Remote work" and select "Reconnect and synchronize".

2. In the wizard, select "I want to reconnect to the control center shared database".
	Caution: This wizard also manages the reconnection to the repository for the current project. For more details, see [SCM: Working in Offline mode](../Editeurs/2038013.md).

3. Select the different options:

	- Shared database to be used: the shared database that was previously used is automatically proposed.

	- The path of the local database.
			If the files have been deleted from the local database, check "I have lost my local database". In this case, you will be reconnected to the shared database but no synchronization will be performed.




4. You are now reconnected to the shared database.




During the reconnection, the data modified locally is automatically updated on the shared database. If a conflict occurs (task modified by several users for example), the network database has priority over the other computers.


