
## Deploying an Android application
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000148"></a>
WINDEV Mobile allows you to develop Android applications.

Once the applications are created, developed and checked, all you have to do is deploy them. Several deployment modes are available: 

- [Deployment via Android Market/Google Play/Play Store (or another market)](#NOTE2_1).

- [Deployment on a Web server](#NOTE3_1).

- [Deployment from the PC via ADB](#NOTE4_1). 

- [Deployment by copy](#NOTE5_1). 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Deployment via Play Store (formerly Android Market/Google Play)
<a name="deployment_via_play_store_formerly_android_marketgoogle_play_ELTTEXTE000172"></a>
Play Store (formerly Android Market or Google Play) is an online service used to download applications (free of charge or not) on mobile devices compatible with Android. 

Once published, the application can be downloaded by users worldwide via the Play Store application installed on their phones. 

The publication of applications on Play Store must comply with specific constraints: 

- During the first publication, you must register beside the Play Store service via a Google account.
	When this documentation was published, the link used for registration is: 
	[http://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup](http://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup)
	Once registered, you have the ability to publish or update an many applications as you want as many times as necessary. 

- The published application must be signed with a private cryptographic key. You have the ability to sign your own application: using a third-party organism is optional. The validity period of certificate must end after October 23, 2033. 
	The applications generated by WINDEV Mobile are automatically signed by using the information specified in the generation wizard ("Signature of application" screen) with a sufficient validity period. 
	Caution: The published application must not be signed with a generic key (whose use must be limited to the tests in GO mode). 

- An icon must be associated with the application. The generation wizard of WINDEV Mobile allows you to define the icon to use. 


**Remark**: Play Store is the most common application but other applications are available. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Deployment via a Web server
<a name="deployment_via_web_server_ELTTEXTE000196"></a>
You can make Android applications available for download via a link on a Web page. 

**To do so, you must:** 

- Copy the "apk" file to the Web server that hosts the page from which the application will be downloaded. 

- Add a link into the Web page for download. This link has the following format: 
	
	```txt
	<a href='Path of the apk file on the server'>Link</a>
	```


- On the server, add the following MIME type: application/vnd.android.package-archive




The user will only have to display the page with the browser of the phone. The application will be downloaded when the link is clicked. Then, all you have to do is click the downloaded file (in the download manager) to install the application. 

**Caution**: The "Unknown sources" option must be enabled on the phone to allow this setup mode. To enable this option, refer to your phone's documentation. Depending on the phone and its version, the corresponding option can be found in "Application", "Security" for example, ... 

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Deployment from the PC via ADB (advanced mode)
<a name="deployment_from_the_via_adb_advanced_mode_ELTTEXTE000220"></a>
ADB (Android Debug Bridge) is a tool provided with the Android SDK. It is used to install or uninstall from the PC an Android application (APK file) on a mobile device compatible with Android. 

This setup mode is an advanced mode. For more details, see the online help about the specific commands used to install an application ([https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb.html](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb.html))

**Caution**: The "Unknown sources" option must be enabled on the phone to allow this setup mode. To enable this option, refer to your phone's documentation. Depending on the phone and its version, the corresponding option can be found in "Application", "Security" for example, ... 

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Copying the application to the Mobile device
<a name="copying_the_application_the_mobile_device_ELTTEXTE000244"></a>
The easiest way to install an Android application on a mobile device is to copy the apk file to the device and run it. The following operations must be performed: 

1. Connect the device to the PC by USB. 

2. Copy the apk file of the application to the device (external memory, for example). 

3. On the device, use a file explorer to go to the directory where the apk file was copied and click the file to start its setup. 


**Remark**: Not all devices come with file browsers, but there are many available for free.

**Caution**: The "Unknown sources" option must be enabled on the phone to allow this setup mode. To enable this option, refer to your phone's documentation. Depending on the phone and its version, the corresponding option can be found in "Application", "Security" for example, ... 


