
## Preparing the phone to run the test of an Android application
			



<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000094"></a>
WINDEV Mobile allows you to develop Android applications. To run the test of these applications on an Android phone, some operations must be performed: 

- [Installing the ADB drivers of the phone on the development computer](#NOTE1_1).

- [Enabling the USB debugging](#NOTE2_1).




<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Installing the ADB drivers
<a name="installing_the_adb_drivers_ELTTEXTE000118"></a>
When the first connection is established between the phone and the development computer, Windows automatically finds the corresponding drivers. 

1. Specify that the location will be indicated manually. 

2. The drivers are found in setup directory of SDK ("usb_driver" directory). If this directory is not found, use sdk manager to install these drivers. For more details, see [https://developer.android.com/studio/run/oem-usb.html](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/oem-usb.html)




<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Enabling the USB debugging
<a name="enabling_the_usb_debugging_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>
USB debugging must be enabled to run tests on the phone. If this operation is not performed, the phone may fail to be detected by WINDEV Mobile. 

**To enable the USB debugging**: 

1. On the phone, go to "Settings". 

2. Select "About phone". 

3. Tap "Build Number" multiple times to enable the developer mode. 

4. Move one level up. 

5. The "Developer Options" entry appears. Select this option. 

6. Check "USB debugging". 


**Caution**: The actions to perform may change across phone versions and manufacturers. For example, in a Samsung Galaxy phone, you must "tap" the "Version number" multiple times in the "About Phone" option to enable "Developer Options". In any case, a Google search with "usb debugging &lt;device name&gt;" allows you to get the operating mode adapted to the device used. 

Remark: On some devices, you must choose "Mass storage mode (MSC)" in order for the device to be detected. 


