


## Setup in MSI format
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
You have the ability to create a setup program in MSI standard. These setup procedures are smaller and allow the use of the installer inside the company.

**Remark**: A setup program in MSI standard can be used for a stand-alone setup only. Indeed, this format does not manage the network setups and the automatic modification of data files.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000145"></a>


### Creating an MSI setup via the wizard
<a name="creating_msi_setup_via_the_wizard_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

To create a setup in MSI standard:

1. Create the application executable: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, click "Generate".

2. Start creating the setup procedure: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, click "Setup procedure".

3. In the setup wizard, click "2 - Setup" on the left of the wizard. In the dialog box that is displayed, select "Access the setup options".

4. Select "Individual setup", then "Setup via MSI package" in the next step.

5. In the rest of wizard:

	- specify the setup directory. The "Advanced" button is used to define the modifications that must be made by the setup to the system configuration (registry, INI file, ...).

	- select the files to install.

	- specify the options for installing the WINDEV framework.

	- specify whether a license must be displayed or not.

	- select the setup context: for the current user or for all the computer users. This option is used to properly create the shortcuts for starting the application. 

	- specify whether the MSI setup package must be signed. If the pack must be signed, select the certificate to use.




6. Validate the wizard. The setup in MSI format is automatically created. 




**Caution**: No executable can be run at the end of the "MSI package" setup program.

Remarks: 

- The MSI setup can be certified (Windows App Certification Kit). 

- The MSI setup can be signed. 

- The MSI setup is recognized by Microsoft SCCM. 





