


## Environment configuration
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000216"></a>
An environment configuration corresponds to a backup of the work environment in the editors of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile: the different panes, palettes and toolbars are saved (as well as their position). This configuration can be restored at any time. Up to 4 configurations can be stored per user/developer.

**Tip**: The environment configurations soon become indispensable when using several screens. The elements found in the interface of WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile can be positioned on any screen. The position of each element on the different screens is automatically saved and restored.

**Remark**: To avoid an unexpected modification of the working environment, you have the ability to lock the environment. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000240"></a>


### Saving the current configuration
<a name="saving_the_current_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

The current working configuration can be saved at any time in one of the four available configurations:

1. Use one of the following methods:

	- use the shortcut Ctrl + Alt + Configuration number (1 to 4).

	- on the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes" and then select "Save environment .. Save in ".




2. In the window that is displayed, specify the name of your configuration. This configuration can be displayed at any time, by pressing Ctrl + Configuration number (1 to 4)

3. Validate. The name of the current configuration is displayed.




**Remark**: The environment configurations are stored in a .INI file found in the "\\Personal" directory of the setup directory of the product used. This file has the following format: "ConfigVoletEnv_&lt;User login&gt;.INI" where &lt;User login&gt; is replaced with the login of the user.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Displaying an existing configuration
<a name="displaying_existing_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

An existing configuration can be displayed at any time:

1. Use one of the following methods:

	- use the shortcut Ctrl + Configuration number (1 to 4).

	- on the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes", and then select "Save environment .. &lt;Configuration name&gt;".




2. The desired environment configuration is displayed.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Exporting a configuration
<a name="exporting_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

The environment configurations associated with a user can be exported. These configurations can be easily imported (by another user or into another product for example).

To export the configurations:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes", and then select "Save environment .. Configuration ".

2. Click the "Export" button.

3. Enter the location and the name of the configuration file.

4. Validate. The INI file containing all the current environment configurations is created.



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Importing a configuration
<a name="importing_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000103"></a>

Importing one or more configurations enables you to harmonize the work interfaces for WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile. Your configurations can be created in one of these three products, then they can be exported and imported into the two other products: the toolbars and the panes common to the different products will be displayed in the same way.

To import a configuration:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes", and then select "Save environment .. Configuration ".

2. Click the "Import" button.

3. Select the INI file containing the configurations to import.

4. Validate. In the window that is displayed, specify the position of each configuration to import in the current configurations.

5. Validate: the configurations are automatically imported into the current product. They can be used right away.



<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Deleting a configuration
<a name="deleting_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000130"></a>

To delete a configuration:

1. On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes", and then select "Save environment .. Configuration ".

2. Select the configuration to delete.

3. Click the "Delete" button.



<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### Locking the environment
<a name="locking_the_environment_ELTPARAGRAPHE000155"></a>

To lock the environment, go to the "Home" tab, "Environment" group, expand "Panes", select "Panes", and then select "Lock environment". The panes and the toolbars cannot be moved or resized anymore.


