


## Cleaning the project
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000097"></a>
After months or years of development and maintenance, the directory of your project often contains several files that are not used anymore but that you don't dare delete.

Test files and windows, useless images, ... It's time to clean up!

A wizard of WINDEV/WEBDEV/WINDEV Mobile automatically detects these unused elements and deletes them from the project, at no risk. The elements deleted from the project will be archived (in ZIP format or in a backup directory) so that they can be restored later if necessary...

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
To clean the project directory:

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Backup/Restore" and select "Clean up project directory". The project cleanup wizard starts. Go to the next step.

2. Select the project directories in which the search for unused files must be performed. The possible directories are as follows:

	- root directory of the project.

	- "Groupware" directory of the project.

	- directories of the project backups.

	- "Java" directory if the current project can be used to generate a Java archive.




3. Choose the type of files that will be taken into account. The wizard lists all the files found.

4. Select the files to archive.

5. The files can be archived:

	- in a compressed file (in ZIP format): select "Yes: Create a ZIP file with the files".

	- in a backup directory: select "No: Move the files to a backup directory".




6. Specify the name of the compressed file that will be created or the directory into which the files to archive will be moved. Check "Add the today's date to the name of the file/directory" to automatically prefix the name of the file or directory with today's date.

7. Validate to archive the unused files.





