


## Testing a Java project and compiling it
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
When your Java application is developed, you can run the test of the Java project and compile it before creating the archive.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Test a Java project in the editor
<a name="test_java_project_the_editor_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>
During the test of a project from the editor, the project is compiled and started in Windows. The project is not compiled in Java.

Reminder: To test a project, go to the "Project" tab, "Test mode" group, expand "Test mode" and select "Debug project".

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Compiling a Java project in WINDEV
<a name="compiling_java_project_windev_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>


### Compiling a Java project
<a name="compiling_java_project_ELTPARAGRAPHE000031"></a>

A Java project is compiled to:

- identify the programming errors found in the WLanguage code.

- display controls, processes, WLanguage functions not available in Java.




These errors appear in purple in the "Compilation errors" pane.

For more details on WINDEV elements not available in a Java application, see [Limitations of this version](../Editeurs/9000056.md). 

**Remark**: The number of WLanguage functions that can be used in a Java project is limited in this version. This number of functions will increase in forthcoming versions.

To compile a Java project, on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, expand "Recompile and synchronize" and select "Recompile project".
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Compiling a WINDEV executable in Java
<a name="compiling_windev_executable_java_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

A Java application can be created from an existing WINDEV project.

To do so, a new configuration must be added to the project: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project configuration" group, click "Manage configurations".

2. Create a new configuration ("New configuration" button). Choose the "Java" generation.

3. Select the existing project elements that must be included in this configuration. These elements will also be included in the archive or in the applet that will be generated.





