


## Combo Box and List Box controls: Automatic features (AAF)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000236"></a>
The List Box and Combo Box controls can benefit from several AAFs (Automatic Application Features): 

- **For the Combo Box control**: 

	- [Sorting the elements](#NOTE2_1).

	- [Storing the selected value](#NOTE3_1). 

	- [Searching in the expanded list](#NOTE3B_1).




- **For the List Box control**: 

	- [Sorting the elements](#NOTE2_1). 

	- [Storing the selected value](#NOTE2_1). 

	- [Copying the row](#NOTE4_1).

	- [Copying all the rows](#NOTE3_1).







<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Sort option
<a name="sort_option_ELTTEXTE000260"></a>


### Necessary conditions
<a name="necessary_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

This feature is very useful if the list box is quite long and if the developer forgot to sort the content.

In order for this feature to be available, the following conditions must be fulfilled:

- The List Box or Combo Box control must be filled by programming or by a file loaded in memory.

- The List Box or Combo Box control must not be already sorted.





### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

To use the automatic feature for sorting a List Box or Combo Box control, select "Sort" from the popup menu of the control.


### Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The sort option in the Combo Box and List Box controls is automatically implemented from version 15.

Like all the popup menus proposed by the AAFs, you have the ability to configure the default options proposed by the control. For more details, see [Configuring the AAF menus](../Editeurs/2010040.md).

**Through programming**:

- [AAFDisable](../WDLang1/1000022018.md) with the *aafSortListOrCombo* constant removes the sorting option from the context menu of the specified List Box or Combo Box control.

- [AAFChangeCaption](../WDLang1/1000022100.md) is used to modify the caption of the sort option.

- the [Sorted](../Proprietes/2510115.md) property determines if the List Box or Combo Box control is sorted. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Saving values
<a name="saving_values_ELTTEXTE000296"></a>


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

To save the value selected in a List Box or Combo Box control, select "Remember value" in the context menu of the control.


### Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

The "Remember value" option is automatically available in Combo Box and List Box controls. This option is used to manage the [data persistence](../WDChamp/9000019.md). 

Like all the popup menus proposed by the AAFs, you have the ability to configure the default options proposed by the control. For more details, see [Configuring the AAF menus](../Editeurs/2010040.md).

**Through programming**: [AAFDisable](../WDLang1/1000022018.md) (or [DisableAAF](../WDLang1/3013061.md)) with the *aafSaveValue* constant deletes the "Remember value" option from the context menu of the specified List Box or Combo Box control.

**Remark**: You can also save the value via the "Remember value" option in the control description window ("Details" tab). This option is used to save the value even if the menu option was not enabled by the user. The menu option has priority if it was enabled by the user. 

<a name="NOTE3B"></a>
<a name="NOTE3B_1"></a>


## Searching in the expanded list
<a name="searching_the_expanded_list_ELTTEXTE000326"></a>


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000127"></a>

To search in the expanded list of the Combo Box control, simply: 

- expand the list of the Combo Box control,

- start entering the text to search for. An input area appears, allowing you to enter the desired element. 





### Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000135"></a>

The search in expanded lists is automatically available in Combo Box controls. 

**Through programming**: [AAFDisable](../WDLang1/1000022018.md) with the *aafFindInCombo* constant disables the search for the specified Combo Box control.

**Remark**: It is also possible to offer a search box by default in the list of a Combo Box control via "With search", in the control description window ("Details" tab). This option can also be enabled by the [SearchAAF](../Proprietes/1000023445.md) property. 

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Copying the row or all the rows
<a name="copying_the_row_all_the_rows_ELTTEXTE000356"></a>


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000159"></a>

To copy the contents of the selected row in a List Box control, select "Copy row" in the context menu. The row content is copied to the clipboard. 

To copy the contents of all the rows in a List Box control, select "Copy all" in the context menu. The contents of all rows is copied to the clipboard. 


### Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

The "Copy row" and "Copy all" options are automatically available in the List Box controls. 

Like all the popup menus proposed by the AAFs, you have the ability to configure the default options proposed by the control. For more details, see [Configuring the AAF menus](../Editeurs/2010040.md).

**Through programming**: 

- [AAFDisable](../WDLang1/1000022018.md) associated with:

	- the *aafCopy* constant is used to disable the copy of a row. 

	- the *aafCopyAll* constant is used to disable the copy of all rows.  




- [AAFChangeCaption](../WDLang1/1000022100.md) is used to modify the text of the menu options ("Copy row" and "Copy all").





