


## Dedicated Web server
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000064"></a>
When installing WEBDEV development version, if no Web server is available on the current computer, WEBDEV automatically installs one (IIS Express version 10). This server is automatically configured to work with WEBDEV. 

It is also possible to install this Web server manually, then configure its via the WEBDEV administrator.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Tips
<a name="tips_ELTTEXTE000092"></a>


### Automatic setup
<a name="automatic_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000110"></a>

If no web server is detected when installing WEBDEV 28, the IIS Express version 10 web server is automatically installed and configured for WEBDEV on the current computer. 

This Web server allows you to quickly test dynamic sites (in Session or AWP mode) created with WEBDEV. 


### Manual installation
<a name="manual_installation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

It is possible to manually install the IIS Express Web server version 10 on the development computer (Windows 7 SP1 minimum). This setup can be found at the following address: [https://www.microsoft.com/fr-fr/download/details.aspx?id=48264](https://www.microsoft.com/fr-fr/download/details.aspx?id=48264)

Simply select the desired download in the desired language: 

- 64-bit version (\*_amd64_\*) for a 64-bit OS (most common case). 

- 32- bit version (\*_x86_\*) for a 32-bit OS.  




The Web server can then be selected: 

- in the WEBDEV options: 

	1. On the "Home" tab, in the "Environment" group, expand "Options" and select "General options of WEBDEV". 

	2. In the "Web" tab, in the "Web server" area, click on "Edit". 

	3. Select the desired Web server in the window that appears and validate. 




- in the WEBDEV administrator: 

	1. Start the WEBDEV administrator: On the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDAdmin". 

	2. In the "Advanced" tab, click on "Server". 

	3. Select "Dedicated Web server (IIS Express)" and validate. 








### Limitations
<a name="limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

- It is not possible to choose the port used for the dedicated Web server: 80xx, where xx is the major WEBDEV version. For example, with WEBDEV 28, the port used is 8028.

- IIS Express does not have a configuration interface. It is necessary to edit the XML file. This means that, in practice, it is not possible to directly modify the configuration of IIS Express.

- If the site requires a non-trivial configuration (SSL certificate, etc.); it is necessary to use a normal Web server (IIS for example).





### Remark
<a name="remark_ELTPARAGRAPHE000179"></a>

WEBDEV uses a separate configuration by major version. It can be found in the subdirectory "&lt;Personal&gt;\\IntegratedWebServer". If a problem occurs, this directory can be deleted: it will be recreated (as well as its content).


