
## WDReplic: Starting the replication
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000100"></a>
Depending on the type of replication to perform, WDReplic must be started:

- **On the master computer**: case for example of a replication via network, or a replication from Master to Subscriber via portable media.

- **On the subscriber computer**: case for example of a replication via network, or a replication from Subscriber to Master via portable media.

- **On the master computer and the subscriber computer**: case for example of a bidirectional replication via portable media.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to use WDReplic?
<a name="how_use_wdreplic_ELTTEXTE000124"></a>


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

- WDReplic allows you to run the replication:

	- directly: the synchronization is immediate

	- later: the synchronization is performed at the specified date and time.




- The description of the replication (SRP file) is automatically generated when implementing the replication. These files are automatically installed on the master and/or subscriber computers when running the setup procedure of the replication.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Running a replication immediately
<a name="running_replication_immediately_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

To run a replication immediately: 

1. Start WDReplic on the requested computer.

2. Select "I want to run one or more replications now".

3. Select the scenario file corresponding to the replication to perform.

4. Start the scenario ("Run" button).



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Scheduling the replication with WDReplic
<a name="scheduling_the_replication_with_wdreplic_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

To schedule the replication with WDReplic: 

1. Start WDReplic on the requested computer.

2. Select "I want to schedule one or more replications". The scheduling wizard starts.

3. Click the "Add" button. 

4. Specify the characteristics of the scenario and of its execution: date, time and schedule. Select the scenario file corresponding to the replication to perform.

5. Validate. The execution of the scenario is scheduled. In order for the synchronization to be performed on the given date, WDReplic must be run in background task on the current computer.





