


## The .NET 2.0 control (WinForm)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the control
<a name="overview_the_control_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
The ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)" is used to easily manage the.NET controls in WinForm format (from.NET 2.0).

To use this control, we strongly advise you to check the Microsoft documentation.

**To create a ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)"**: 

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Other controls" group, click ".NET".

2. Click at the desired location to create the control. The control appears in the editor.




To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.

**Remark**: WINDEV also proposes to use .Net controls that use the WPF format. For more details, see [.Net control (WPF)](../WDChamp/1017001.md). 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000145"></a>


### Describing a ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)"
<a name="describing_net_20_control_winform_ELTPARAGRAPHE000044"></a>

To define the characteristics of the control: 

1. Open the control description window. 

2. In the "General" tab, select the assembly used and the associated class. The "Add some .Net assemblies into the project" button allows you to integrate the necessary assemblies. You can use: 

	- A custom .Net assembly

	- A .Net assembly supplied with the .Net framework. 







Then, the control can be handled through programming. For more details, see [Programming a ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)"](../WDChamp/1000019579.md).


### Limitations
<a name="limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

The limitations of the ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)" are as follows:

- The .Net framework version 2.0 (or later) must be installed on the computer. This framework is included in Vista and it can be downloaded for Windows XP (from the Microsoft site).
	The first use of a control that requires this framework (Carousel control, Cube control, ".NET 3.0, 4.0, ... control (WPF)") loads this framework, which may cause delay (out of our control).

- The application cannot be started from the network.

- The DDW feature is disabled for all the windows containing a ".NET 2.0 control (WinForm)".

- This control does not operate under TSE.

- This control uses the wdxxxnet.dll library. This library cannot be renamed when creating the executable.





