
## TmeLine control linked to a data file or variable
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>
You can create TimeLine controls directly linked to the data. You can create: 

- a **TimeLine control based on a data file**: the TimeLine control will be linked to a data file or to a query. In this case, the data file contains the characteristics of the events. 

- a **TimeLine control based on a variable**: the TimeLine control will be linked to a variable (a class instance in most cases). In this case, the class lists the events and their characteristics. 




The programming of the TimeLine controls is simplified. 





## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000149"></a>


### Creating a TimeLine control based on a data file
<a name="creating_timeline_control_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

To create a Timeline control based on a data file: 

1. Open the control description window (select "Description" in the context menu). 

2. In the "Content" tab, select "File/Query" and select the data source used. This data source can be: 

	- a data file defined in the analysis, 

	- a query of the project, 

	- a query included in the window. 




3. Associate the different items of the data source with the characteristics of the event. The elements preceded by a star are mandatory. 
	**Remark**: If the associated data file does not directly contain the corresponding item, you can set a multi-file link. 

4. Validate the TimeLine control description window. The TimeLine control is based on a data file. 







### Creating a TimeLine control based on a variable
<a name="creating_timeline_control_based_variable_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

To create a TimeLine control based on a variable: 

1. Open the control description window (select "Description" in the context menu). 

2. In the "Content" tab, select "By variable" and select the data source used (class, ...). 

3. Associate the different elements (members of the class for example) of the data source with the characteristics of the event. The elements preceded by a star are mandatory. 

4. Validate the TimeLine control description window. The TimeLine control is based on a variable. 








## Handling a TimeLine control based on a data file or variable
<a name="handling_timeline_control_based_data_file_variable_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>


### TimeLine control based on a data file
<a name="timeline_control_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

TimeLine controls based on a data file are very easy to handle: 

- If the user handles the timeline via the context menu, all additions, deletions and changes made to the events will be automatically applied to the data file linked to the control.

- If the user handles the events via a specific window, all you have to do is modify the data file linked to the timeline. The displayed data will be automatically refreshed. It is also possible to use [TimelineDisplay](../WDLang1/1000020683.md) to refresh the data in the control. 




**Remark**: If the control is linked to a data source, the deletion performed in the control is performed at the same time in the linked data source. 


### TimeLine control based on a variable
<a name="timeline_control_based_variable_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

TimeLine controls based on a variable are very easy to handle: 

- If the user handles the timeline via the context menu, all additions, deletions and changes made to the events will be automatically applied to the data source of the control.

- If the user handles the events via a specific window, all you have to do is modify the elements linked to the timeline (class members for example). The displayed data will be automatically refreshed. It is also possible to use [TimelineDisplay](../WDLang1/1000020683.md) to refresh the data in the control. 




**Remark**: If the control is linked to a data source, the deletion performed in the control is performed at the same time in the linked data source.  


