
## Modal windows
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
The window that opens another window is called **parent window**; the window opened by the parent window is called **child window**. When using modal windows, a parent window can only have one child window.

This mode does not allow to you to use other windows.

**In modal windows:**

- parent and child windows cannot grab input focus at the same time. The child window is the only window that can be in edit mode.

- to be able to edit in the parent window, the child window must be closed.

- the parent window cannot be closed as long as the child window is opened.

- once the child window is closed, the parent window becomes the current window.

- if the child window is minimized, the entire project is minimized with the icon of the current window (or with the icon of the project if the window has no icon).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Opening a window
<a name="opening_window_ELTTEXTE000161"></a>
The [Open](../WDLang1/3038035.md) function is used to open modal windows.

The last window opened receives focus. The other windows cannot be edited as long as the last window remains open.

The child window is always displayed on top of the parent window.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Minimizing a window
<a name="minimizing_window_ELTTEXTE000185"></a>
If the window is minimized, the entire project is minimized. The icon used is the icon of the current window (or the icon of the project if the window has no icon).

A window can be minimized:

- with the [Iconize](../WDLang1/3038015.md) function

- with the [WinSize](../WDLang1/3038020.md) function.




A window can be restored:

- with the [Restores](../WDLang1/3038042.md) function

- with the [WinSize](../WDLang1/3038020.md) function.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Current window
<a name="current_window_ELTTEXTE000209"></a>
The current window is the one that gains focus.  Its title bar is active and the code for gaining focus has been run in it.

The current window is always the last window opened.

No input can be performed in a window other than the current window.

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Closing a window
<a name="closing_window_ELTTEXTE000233"></a>
Windows can be closed using [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md). This function used without specifying the name of the window to close will close the last window that was opened.


