


## Page Header block
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
The **Page header** block is a report block created in the report editor. The **Page header** block is printed on each new page. This block is run after the *Start of document* block if it exists.

The **Page header** block contains the information that will be printed at the top of each page, the title or a preset control indicating the page number for example.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the Page Header block
<a name="creating_the_page_header_block_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
To create a Page Header block:

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor:

	- on the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks".

	- select "Add a block" in the report popup menu (right click on the report being created).

	- click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select the "Page header" type.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Printing the Page Header block
<a name="printing_the_page_header_block_ELTTEXTE000187"></a>


### Printing the Page Header block before or after the Start of Document block
<a name="printing_the_page_header_block_before_after_the_start_document_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

By default, the **Page header** block is printed after the *Start of document* block on the first page of the report. The report editor allows you to modify this default print order.
To print the Page Header block before the Start of Document block on the first page of the report:

- Method 1: 

	1. Open the description of the "Start of document" block ("Block description" in the popup menu).

	2. In the "General" tab, select "Print the "Start of document" block AFTER the "Page header" block on the first page".




- Method 2: 

	1. Open the report description (select "Report description" in the context menu).

	2. In the "Blocks" tab, in the "Start of document" section, check "AFTER the "Page header" block".






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Visibility of the Page Header block
<a name="visibility_the_page_header_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000080"></a>

By default, the ** Page header** block is visible on all the report pages. The report editor allows you to specify the report pages on which the *Page header* block must be displayed.

To specify the pages on which the Page Header block must be displayed:

1. Open the "UI" tab in the block description window ("Block description" in the popup menu).

2. Specify the visibility of the block:

	- **Always visible**: The block and its controls will be displayed on all the pages of the report.

	- **Always invisible**: The block and its controls will not be displayed in the report.

	- **Visible on the first page only**: The block and its controls will be displayed on the first page of the report.

	- **Invisible on the first page only**: The block and its controls will be displayed on all the pages of the report except for the first one.








