


## Start of Document block
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000114"></a>
The **Start of document** block is printed once at the beginning of the report execution. In most cases, this block contains the title of the document as well as today's date and time.

In the event associated with this type of block, you can display, for example, a warning window to indicate that the printing has started.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the Start of Document block
<a name="creating_the_start_document_block_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>
To create a Start of Document block:

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor:

	- on the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks".

	- select "Add a block" from the popup menu of the report (right mouse click on the report currently created).

	- click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select the "Start of document" type.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Printing the Start of Document block
<a name="printing_the_start_document_block_ELTTEXTE000162"></a>


### Printing the Start of Document block before or after the Page Header block
<a name="printing_the_start_document_block_before_after_the_page_header_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

By default, the **Start of document** block is printed before the *Page header* block on the first page of the report. The report editor allows you to modify this default print order.

- Method 1: 

	1. Open the description of the "Start of document" block ("Block description" in the popup menu).

	2. In the "General" tab, select "Print the "Start of document" block AFTER the "Page header" block on the first page".




- Method 2: 

	1. Open the report description (select "Report description" in the context menu).

	2. In the "Blocks" tab, in the "Start of document" section, check "AFTER the "Page header" block".








