
## Downloading a report in PDF format on the computer of the Web user
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000122"></a>
To propose to download a report in PDF format on the computer of the Web user, you must: 

- generate the PDF file on the Web server.

- propose to download the generated file on the computer of the Web user. 

- delete the PDF file from the Web server.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>


### Generating a PDF file on the Web server
<a name="generating_pdf_file_the_web_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

To generate a PDF file on the Web server:

1. Create a unique name for the PDF file to be generated. The creation directory of this file must be accessible in read/write (the directory of the data files or the "&lt;MyProject&gt;_WEB" directory of the site for example). 
	For details on how to create a unique file name, see [Defining a unique name for the generated file](../WDChamp/1011009.md).

2. Configure the print destination with [iDestination](../WDLang5/3046074.md) associated with the *iPDF* constant (print in a PDF file).

3. Specify the name of the report to print in [iPrintReport](../WDLang5/3046032.md). 
	The PDF file is created on the Web server.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Downloading the PDF file
<a name="downloading_the_pdf_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

To propose to download the generated file on the computer of the Web user, use [FileDisplay](../WDLang2/3012005.md).
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Deleting the PDF file
<a name="deleting_the_pdf_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

To reduce the disk space occupied by the reports in PDF format on the Web server, we advise you to delete the unused reports on a regular basis. You can, for example, remove the report once it has been downloaded or create a procedure used to erase the reports generated during a day.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Example
<a name="example_ELTTEXTE000182"></a>
The "RPT_OrderPDF" report is a report in PDF format proposed for download.

The  "BTN_DownloadOrder" button is used to:

- generate the PDF file in the "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory of the site. 

- propose to download the report in PDF format. 

- delete the PDF report once it is downloaded.




In this example, the server click code of "BTN_DownloadOrder" button is as follows:


```wl
// Generate a unique PDF file name
AFile is string = fWebDir() + "\" + DateSys() + TimeSys() + ".pdf"  
// Configure the destination of the print 
iDestination(iPDF, AFile)  
// Print the RPT_OrderPDF report 
iPrintReport(RPT_OrderPDF)  
// Propose to download the file 
// The file name proposed by default will be "Order.pdf"  
FileDisplay(AFile, "application/pdf", "Order.pdf")  
// Delete the file 
fDelete(AFile)
```



