


## End of break block
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the "End of break" block (Break footer)
<a name="overview_the_end_break_block_break_footer_ELTTEXTE000115"></a>
The **End of break** block is an optional block found in the reports created with the report editor. This block is created if a break is requested on a sort argument. The *Start of break* block necessarily exists if this block exists.

This block is run whenever the value of the sort argument changes, after the last iteration of the *Body* block for a value of the sort argument. In most cases, it contains the counter or total controls for the records corresponding to the sort argument.

**Remark**: The *Start of break* block and the **End of break** block cannot be dissociated. However, one of these blocks can be made invisible (in the description window of the block or via the [Visible](../Proprietes/2510138.md) property).

For more details on the different options available on this type of block, see [Describing the report blocks](../WDChamp/1011049.md).



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating a break block
<a name="creating_break_block_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
To create an "End of break" block:

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor: 

	- On the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks".

	- Select "Add a block" from the popup menu of the report (right mouse click on the report currently created).

	- Click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select "Break".

3. Select the item linked to the break currently created. A break will be created for each new value of this item.
	Remark: To create a programmed break, select "No item". For more details, see [Break in a report](../WDChamp/1011028.md).




**Reminder**: The *Start of break* block and the *End of break* block are automatically created as soon as a a break is added into the report. For more details, see [Break in a report](../WDChamp/1011028.md).


