


## Displaying a page in a WEBDEV site
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
Displaying a new page in a WEBDEV site can be done according to several methods:

- from the description of the control that must open the page (button, link, menu, clickable image, etc.).

- by programming in WLanguage.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying a page from the description of a control
<a name="displaying_page_from_the_description_control_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>
When describing a button, a link, a clickable image, ... you have the ability to define the action performed as well as the destination of this action.

To display a page "xxx" from a button, a link, an image, ...:

1. Open the element description ("Description" in the context menu of the element).

2. Select the action to perform: "Display the xxx page".

3. Select the destination of the action: current page, current browser, ... (specific frame for a frameset). The action that was previously selected will be performed in this frame.

4. Validate.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Displaying a page through programming (in WLanguage)
<a name="displaying_page_through_programming_wlanguage_ELTTEXTE000168"></a>
Several WLanguage functions can be used to open a page.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) | Opens and displays a new page in the user's browser. |
| [PageRefresh](../WDLang2/3058011.md) | Refreshes the page displayed according to its context. |
| [PageUse](../WDLang2/3058016.md) | Closes all the current pages and their context, and opens a new page. |

When the page is opened, you can pass parameters to it. For more details, see [Page with parameters](../WDChamp/1012020.md).

Remark: By default, when a page is opened through programming, the selected destination is:

- the target defined in the description of object that triggers the page opening (button, link, etc.).

- the destination set for the current page.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Case of dynamic pages
<a name="case_dynamic_pages_ELTTEXTE000192"></a>
When displaying a dynamic page, the following actions are performed:

1. The existence of the page context on the server is checked.

2. The context is closed if it exists.

3. Opening the page context. All the variables and controls linked to the page are re-initialized.

4. Displaying the requested page in the browser.





