


## The Calculated control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of Calculated control
<a name="overview_calculated_control_ELTTEXTE000128"></a>


### Control of a report
<a name="control_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

The "Calculated" control is used to perform calculations in a report. These calculations can be made:

- on an item of the data source.

- on a control found in the report.

- through programming.






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating a calculated control
<a name="creating_calculated_control_ELTTEXTE000152"></a>
To create a "Calculated" control:

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Text" group, click "Calculation".

2. Click the position where the control will be created in the report.

3. In the Calculated control creation wizard, specify: 

	- whether the calculated control counts the records. 

	- whether the calculated control performs a calculation on an item or control. In this case, select the type of calculation (sum, average, ...) and the source for calculation (control name or item name).

	- whether the calculated control displays a calculation performed through programming. In the list, select the mask to use. 







This information can be modified in the description window of the control ("Description" from the popup menu).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Important: Difference between calculation and calculation on break
<a name="important_difference_between_calculation_and_calculation_break_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

In the calculations on break, the control is re-initialized after each break.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000182"></a>


### Specific "Calculated" control: "Currency + Euro"
<a name="specific_calculated_control_currency_euro_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

For a "Currency + Euro" Calculated control, you have the ability to manage:

- the ***stored currency***: currency of data found in the data source of report. If the control is handled through programming, the currency used for the value will be the stored currency.

- the ***displayed currency***: currency used to display the value in the report. This currency can differ from the stored currency. The conversion is automatically performed.

- the ***dual display***: two "Currency + Euro" controls can be bound. The value displayed in the base control is automatically converted in the tracker control.





