
## Table control based on a variable
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000209"></a>
A Table control based on a variable is a Table control whose columns are bound to the elements of an Array variable, to the members of a class or to the elements of an advanced variable (e.g., xlsDocument).

For example, each Table control column can be:

- Bound to a member of a class instance, 

- Bound to an element in an array, etc.

- Calculated: A column that is not bound to a variable is a **calculated column**. For calculated columns, the content of the column is recalculated each time a row is displayed.




A Table control based on a variable allows you to:

- View the content of an Array variable, class or advanced variable.

- Handle a table row (add, delete, modify, etc.). 




**Caution: the Table control and the data source are not automatically synchronized. Depending on the action performed, changes must be propagated to the Table control or to the source.**



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Operating mode, programming and synchronization of a Table control based on a variable
<a name="operating_mode_programming_and_synchronization_table_control_based_variable_ELTTEXTE000233"></a>


### Adding an element
<a name="adding_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

- Case 1. Adding an element to the source of the Table control
	To update a Table control with the new elements in its data source, use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) with the *taInit* constant. The selections and sorts performed by the user will be lost.

- Case 2. Adding an element to the Table control (cascading input)
	To manage cascading inputs, new elements must be added to the data source programmatically.
	We advise you to:

	- Add elements one by one in the code used to exit from the row.

	- Use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) (with the *taInit* constant) to update the bindings between the rows of the Table control and the elements in the data source.






<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Modifying an element
<a name="modifying_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

- Case 1. Changes in the data source of the Table control
	To update the Table control with the changes from the data source, use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md).

- Case 2. Changes in the Table control
	If changes are made in the Table control, they are automatically reflected in the data source.
	If changes are made programmatically in the Table control (using WLanguage functions, for example), you need to call [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md) to confirm those changes. Then, changes are automatically reflected.
	**Caution**: Depending on the operations previously performed, changes may be reflected in a wrong location if the data source and the Table control are not synchronized: the synchronization must always be maintained.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Deleting an element
<a name="deleting_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

- Case 1. Deleting an element using its index in the data source of the Table control
	The element must be deleted manually from the Table control and from the data source.
	[TableSearch](../WDLang1/3075002.md) returns the row of the Table control that corresponds to the element (the value in the Table control must correspond to the element in the data source).
	**Limitation**: For simple sources (e.g., array of integers), use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) with the *taInit* constant to update the bindings between the rows of the Table control and the elements in the data source. The selections and sorts performed by the user will be lost.  

- Case 2. Deleting an element using its index in the Table control
	The element must be deleted manually from the Table control and from the data source.
	[TableSearch](../WDLang1/3075002.md) returns the index in the data source that corresponds to the element deleted in the Table control.
	**Limitation**: For simple sources (e.g., array of integers), use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) with the *taInit* constant to update the bindings between the rows of the Table control and the elements in the data source. The selections and sorts performed by the user will be lost.  




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Handling a Table control based on a variable in a WLanguage code: stored value
<a name="handling_table_control_based_variable_wlanguage_code_stored_value_ELTTEXTE000269"></a>
When handling a Table control based on a variable through programming:

- using **&lt;Table control&gt;** in the code returns the content of the stored item.

- using **&lt;Table control&gt;** in a FOR EACH ROW loop returns the content of the stored item. 

- using **&lt;Table control&gt; [n]** in the code returns the content of the stored item.   




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Changing the base variable of a Table control programmatically
<a name="changing_the_base_variable_table_control_programmatically_ELTTEXTE000293"></a>
To programmatically change the base variable of a Table control: 

1. In the description window of the Table control, select the population mode "From a variable" ("Content" tab).

2. In the code, define the value of the following properties for the Table control: 

	- [BrowsedFile](../Proprietes/2510040.md): this property defines the data source. In this case, this property corresponds to an array of structures or to the name of an array of classes. 

	- [StoredItem](../Proprietes/2510110.md): this property corresponds to the in-memory value returned by the Table control when a row is selected.




3. For each column in the Table control, use the [DataBinding](../Proprietes/2510060.md) property to define the member of the array variable that will populate the column.

4. Display the data in the Table control with [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md).




Code example: 


```wl
// Declare the array
STContact is structure
	sLastName is string
	sFirstName is string
	sEmail is string
END

t_Contact is array of STContact


// Assign the table properties
TABLE_CONTACT.BrowsedFile = ":t_Contact"
TABLE_CONTACT.StoredItem = ":t_Contact.sLastName"

// Assign the properties of the table columns
TABLE_CONTACT.COL_LASTNAME.DataBinding = ":t_Contact.sLastName"
TABLE_CONTACT.COL_FIRSTNAME.DataBinding = ":t_Contact.sFirstName"
TABLE_CONTACT.COL_EMAIL.DataBinding = ":t_Contact.sEmail"

TableDisplay(TABLE_CONTACT)
```


<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Limitation
<a name="limitation_ELTTEXTE000317"></a>
Table controls based on an array of simple types (integers, strings, etc.) are available in read-only mode.


