


## IFrame control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of iFrame control
<a name="overview_iframe_control_ELTTEXTE000123"></a>
iFrame is an HTML concept. This concept indicates that an independent Web content is inserted into a specific area of a page. This allows you to display in an HTML page:

- an HTML page coming from a site other than the current WEBDEV site.

- an HTML page found in the current site.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating an iFrame control
<a name="creating_iframe_control_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>


### Creating an iFrame control
<a name="creating_iframe_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000021"></a>

To create an iFrame control:

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Integration" group, click "iFrame".

2. Click where you want to create the control in the page. The control appears in the editor.




To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Associating a page with an iFrame control
<a name="associating_page_with_iframe_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

To associate a page with an iFrame control:

1. Display the description window of the iFrame control (select "Description" from the popup menu of the control).

2. In the "General" tab, select the page displayed in the control:

	- a page found in the current project.

	- enter the address of a site or site page (e.g. [www.windev.com](http://www.windev.com)) as well as the desired security mode.




3. Validate.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Handling an iFrame control
<a name="handling_iframe_control_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>


### Changing the target of the iFrame control
<a name="changing_the_target_the_iframe_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

The target of an iFrame control can be easily changed via a Button or a Link control.

The target can be changed only if the target of the iFrame control belongs to the current site.

Simply create a Button or a Link control with the following characteristics:

- Type: "Display a site page". All you have to do is select the page to display.

- Destination: "In an iFrame XXX". All you have to do is select the name of the iFrame control.

- During the action: "Do not send anything to the server". 




**Remark**: If the target of the iFrame control does not belong to the current site, the Internet browser does not allow you to modify this target (for security reasons).


