


## The Java Applet control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of Java Applet control
<a name="overview_java_applet_control_ELTTEXTE000140"></a>


### Control in a dynamic or static page
<a name="control_dynamic_static_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

A Java Applet control allows you to easily include Java Applets in your WEBDEV sites.

To create a Java Applet control, you must have:

- the Java applet (".Class" file).

- the different parameters of applet.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating a Java Applet control
<a name="creating_java_applet_control_ELTTEXTE000164"></a>
To create a Java Applet control: 

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Integration" group, click "Java applet".

2. Click where you want to create the control in the page. The control appears in the editor.




To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Characteristics specific to the Java Applet control
<a name="characteristics_specific_the_java_applet_control_ELTTEXTE000188"></a>


### Control description
<a name="control_description_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

To configure the Java Applet control, specify the following details in the "General" tab of the control description:

- **the Jar archive** if necessary. This archive must be specified when the Java applet is included in an archive. 

- the **name of the Applet file** (without extension) corresponding to the main applet to run (".CLASS" file).
	Example: "Scroll"
	Remark: The names of applets are "case sensitive". Pay special attention to the uppercase and lowercase characters.

- the **base**, which means the name of directory containing all components of Java applet. This string must be preceded and followed by the "/" character. We advise you to place all objects required to run the applet in the "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory of project or in a subdirectory of "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory. 
	Example: "/JavaSite_web/MyApplets/"
	Remark: Depending on the Web server used, the names of directories are "case sensitive". Pay special attention to the uppercase and lowercase characters.

- the **table of parameters**. This table groups all the parameters required to run the applet. The list of parameters is supplied by the distributor of Applet. 
	***To add a parameter***, click the "Add" button: Specify the parameter name ("Name of the parameter" column) and its value ("Value" column). 
	***To delete a parameter***, select the parameter and click the "Delete" button.
	***If the Java applet was created with WINDEV***, the name of parameters corresponds to the name of parameters retrieved by [CommandLine](../WDLang1/3013051.md). 
	Example: Initialization code of the WINDEV project used to create the applet:
	
	```wl
	P1 is string
	P1 = CommandLine("Param1")
	```

	In this case, the name of the parameter that will be used in WEBDEV is "Param1".



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Current directory
<a name="current_directory_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

To specify the database and the parameters, the path is relative to the current directory. The current directory is the directory where the HTM file corresponding to the page is generated.

- **For a dynamic page**, the current directory is the language subdirectory of the project directory (FR, UK, etc.). 
	Example: If the parameter is a file located in the "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory, the value of the parameter corresponds to "/&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB/&lt;File name&gt;".

- **For a static page**, the current directory is the language subdirectory of the &lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB directory (FR, UK, etc.).




**Example**: If the parameter is a file found in the "&lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB" directory, the value of the parameter corresponds to "../&lt;File name&gt;".


