
## Including a supercontrol in a window or in a page
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Retrieving a supercontrol
<a name="retrieving_supercontrol_ELTTEXTE000132"></a>
In most cases, the supercontrol is available in a dictionary (.Dic file). To include the supercontrol in your window or page, you must:

1. Display the ["Dictionary" pane](../Editeurs/2027014.md).

2. Open the dictionary ("Open" from the popup menu).

3. Drag and Drop the control found in the dictionary to your window or page. The supercontrol is automatically included in your window or page.


**Remark**: Several copies of the same supercontrol can be found in the same window or page. Only the name of the supercontrol is modified. The names of the elements found in the supercontrol are not modified. The processes associated with the controls are independent.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Programming a supercontrol
<a name="programming_supercontrol_ELTTEXTE000156"></a>
Programming a supercontrol depends on the possibilities given to the supercontrol by its designer.

- In most cases, the supercontrol has a value. This value can be obtained by using the name of the supercontrol or by using [Value](../Proprietes/2510130.md).

- To handle a control of the supercontrol (to find out its value for example), you must use the following notation:
	
	```txt
	<Supercontrol name>.<Control name>
	```


- Use (if necessary) the [processes associated with the supercontrol](../WDChamp/1013082.md).




**Remark**: We do not advise you to modify the procedures associated with the supercontrols without prior agreement from the designer.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Properties specific to the supercontrols
<a name="properties_specific_the_supercontrols_ELTTEXTE000180"></a>
The following properties are used to manage the characteristics of a supercontrol by programming.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [Height](../Proprietes/2510050.md) | Allows you to find out and modify the height of the supercontrol |
| [Name](../Proprietes/2510082.md) | Allows you to find out the name of the supercontrol |
| [Value](../Proprietes/2510130.md) | Allows you to find out and modify the value of the supercontrol |
| [Width](../Proprietes/2510059.md) | Allows you to find out and modify the width of the supercontrol |


For a complete list of WLanguage properties that can be used with a supercontrol, see [Properties associated with a supercontrol](../WDChamp/1013066.md).


