
## Characteristics of an indexed control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Describing an indexed control
<a name="describing_indexed_control_ELTTEXTE000093"></a>
A description window is available for each control found in an indexed control. The name of the control is the same. Only the control index changes. Different options can be defined for each control found in an indexed control.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Differences with WINDEV 5.5
<a name="differences_with_windev_55_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
**In version 5.5**, the index was displayed in the status bar of the window editor. The description window was the same for all the indexed controls. Each modification performed in the description window (7-tab window) was applied to all the indexed controls.

**From version 9**, the indexed is displayed in the description window. Each indexed control has its own description (7-tab window) and its own characteristics. A control found in an indexed control can be green while another control of the same indexed control can be blue. Similarly, two controls belonging to the same indexed control can use different popup menus.

***To modify the characteristics of all the indexed controls in a single operation***, you must:

1. Select all the indexed controls (using the lasso for example)

2. Display the description window and perform the requested modifications.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Code of the indexed control
<a name="code_the_indexed_control_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
All the indexed controls with the same name are associated with the same processes.

For example, the initialization code of the indexed control named Edit1[1] is the same as the initialization code of the indexed control named Edit1[5].


