


## Link control associated with an item containing an email address
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000147"></a>
In a database, the email address of customers, suppliers, ... is one of the stored elements. Why not directly create the links to these addresses in your site?

WEBDEV allows you to easily create a Link control used to automatically send an email. For example, a Web user who is looking at a list of suppliers can directly send an email to one of the suppliers. When a click is performed on the Link control, the messaging software of Web user will be opened and the email address of recipient will be displayed.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000171"></a>


### To create a Link control associated with an item containing an email address
<a name="create_link_control_associated_with_item_containing_email_address_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

To create a link control associated with an item containing an email address: 

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Usual controls" group, click "Link".

2. Click where you want to create the control in the page. The control appears in the editor.

3. Open the control description window (select "Description" in the context menu).

4. Go to the "General" tab: 

	- In the "Link action" section, select the type "Custom link (email, phone, etc.)".

	- In the "Address" section, select "email".




5. Go to the "Details" tab and select:

	- "Automatically prefix URL property".

	- "..Value represents the link URL (compatibility with WEBDEV 1.5)".




6. Go the "Binding" tab and select the item to be bound to the control.

7. Validate the control description.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### RAD Page trick: Automatically creating the link associated with the email address
<a name="rad_page_trick_automatically_creating_the_link_associated_with_the_email_address_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

1. In the data model editor, display the window of items for the relevant file ("Description of items" from the popup menu).

2. Select the item containing an email address.

3. Click "Parameters of the control bound to the selected item (shared information)".

4. The shared information management window appears. 

5. In "Type of control", select "Link". The description window of the Link control created by RAD is displayed.

6. Go to the "General" tab: 

	- In the "Link action" section, select the type "Custom link (email, phone, etc.)".

	- In the "Address" section, select "email".




7. Go to the "Details" tab and select:

	- "Automatically prefix URL property".

	- "..Value represents the link URL (compatibility with WEBDEV 1.5)".




8. Go the "Binding" tab and select the item to be bound to the control.

9. Validate the control description and the window of data file items.

10. Generate the analysis: on the "Analysis" tab, in the "Analysis" group, expand "Generation" and select "Generation".




When creating a RAD page, the Link control will be automatically created with all the necessary characteristics.


