


## The Pager control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the Pager control
<a name="overview_the_pager_control_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>
The Pager control is used to quickly access the records of a Table or Looper control displayed on several pages. The Web user clicks the page number to display the corresponding records. 


A pager is automatically associated with non-Ajax Table or Looper controls (based on a data file or populated programmatically) when the maximum number of rows per page is greater than the number rows in the control. 

You can also create a Pager control and associate it with a Table or Looper control afterwards.


### Creating a Pager control
<a name="creating_pager_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000019"></a>

To create a Pager control: 

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Navigation" group, click "Pager".

2. Click where you want to create the control in the page. The control appears in the editor.




To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.

To associate the pager with an existing Table or Looper control: 

1. Open the Pager control description window. 

2. Select the Table or Looper control in the "General" tab.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000176"></a>


### Send value of controls to the server
<a name="send_value_controls_the_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

The option "Send the value of controls to the server" ("General" tab of the description window) is used to perform the following operations when using a Pager control:

- validate the controls of the current page.

- return the value of these controls to the server.




Then, the server performs the specified action.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Description of a Table control and a Looper control
<a name="description_table_control_and_looper_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

When describing a Table or Looper control, you have the ability to specify the maximum number of rows per page:

- Table control: "Details" tab in the characteristics of Table control.

- Looper control: "General" tab in the characteristics of Looper control.




If the number of rows displayed in the page is greater than the maximum number specified, a pager is automatically associated with the Table or Looper control. The Pager control is displayed below the Table and/or Looper control. 

**Remark**: This option is available for non-Ajax Table controls only. Table controls in "Server + AJAX" mode use a scrollbar.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Active WEBDEV Pager
<a name="active_webdev_pager_ELTPARAGRAPHE000078"></a>

The pager in AWP mode automatically manages the method for passing parameters, without programming. 

This type of pager allows you to reference all the linked pages and it avoids having to use cookies to store the current search. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Event managed by default
<a name="event_managed_default_ELTTEXTE000212"></a>
WEBDEV manages the following event by default:


| Event | Runtime condition |
| --- | --- |
| Initialization (Server code) | Run when opening the page. |




