


## Events associated with the Conference control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Events managed by default
<a name="events_managed_default_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
WINDEV manages the following events by default (in order of appearance in the code editor):

| Event | Runtime condition |
| --- | --- |
| Initializing the Conference control | Run when the window is opened. \* |


(\*) By default, the "Initializing" event of each control is run according to the order in which the controls were created in the window. To modify this order of execution: 

1. On the "Window" tab, in the "Order" group, click "Initialization".

2. In the window displayed, use the arrows on the right to modify the order in which the controls are initialized.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Events of the stream associated with the Conference control
<a name="events_the_stream_associated_with_the_conference_control_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>
WINDEV also allows you to see the stream-specific events associated with the Conference control. To see these events, select the option "Code of associated stream" in the context menu of the Conference control.

| Event | Runtime condition |
| --- | --- |
| Initializing (\*) | Run when opening the window. |
| Connection request of new stream | Run when a new stream is detected. |
| End of connection | Run when the correspondent of the stream disconnects. |


For more details, see [WINDEV and the streams](../WDLang3/3039001.md).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Event to the request the connection of a new stream
<a name="event_the_request_the_connection_new_stream_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>
The event **"Request for connecting a new stream"** is run when a new stream attempts to connect to the current application.

**This event takes one parameter**.

To handle this parameter, a procedure is automatically declared in the "Request for connecting a new stream" event.

This procedure uses the following syntax:


```wl
PROCEDURE NewStream(nStreamID)
```
Where "nStreamID" is an integer variable corresponding to the identifier of the detected stream.


