


## The Preset control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of Preset control
<a name="overview_preset_control_ELTTEXTE000115"></a>


### Report control
<a name="report_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

The "Preset" control allows you to display the frequently used controls without programming. A "Preset" control can be inserted into a report to display the following information:

- System date.

- System time.

- Number of the current page.

- Page number/Number of pages.

- Total number of pages in the report.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating a Preset control
<a name="creating_preset_control_ELTTEXTE000139"></a>
To create a "preset" control in a report:

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Text" group, click "Preset".

2. Click the position where the control will be created in the report.

3. In the control creation wizard, select the type of control you want to create.

4. Specify the content or the format of control.

5. The control is automatically created at the specified location.




Remark: You also have the ability to use the preset controls proposed by default. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Text" group, click "Preset", and select the type of control you want to create. Then, click where you want to create the control in the report.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## How to modify the type of information displayed in a "preset" control?
<a name="how_modify_the_type_information_displayed_preset_control_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
To modify the type of information displayed in a "preset" control:

1. Go to the "General" tab in the description window of the "preset" control ("Description" in the control popup menu).

2. Select the type of information displayed ("Type" combo box).





