


## The .NET 3.0, 4.0 control, ... (WPF)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the control
<a name="overview_the_control_ELTTEXTE000128"></a>
**Caution**: The Xaml control found in the earlier WINDEV versions (up to version 15) is now called the ".NET 3.0, 4.0, ... control (WPF)". In this documentation, we will be using the term of ".Net control (WPF)". The .Net control (WPF) (also called "XAML") is used to easily manage the .NET controls in WPF format (for .NET 3.0, 3.5 and 4.0) and especially the Xaml language.

To use this control, we strongly advise you to check the Microsoft documentation.

**To create a.Net control (WPF)**: 

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Other controls" group, click "XAML".

2. Click at the desired location to create the control. The control appears in the editor.




To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000152"></a>


### .Net controls
<a name="net_controls_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

To use the .Net controls, WINDEV proposes: 

- the.Net control (WPF) for.Net 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, ...

- [the .Net control (WinForm)](../WDChamp/1000019575.md)for .Net 2.0.





### Limitations
<a name="limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

The limitations of the .Net control (WPF) are as follows:

- The .Net framework version 3.0 (or later) must be installed on the computer. This framework is included in Vista and it can be downloaded for Windows XP (from the Microsoft site).
	The first use of a control that requires this framework (Carousel control, Cube control, ".NET 3.0, 4.0, ... control (WPF)") loads this framework, which may cause delay (out of our control).

- The application cannot be started from the network.

- The DDW feature is disabled for all the windows containing a ".NET 3.0, 4.0, ... control (WPF)".

- This control does not operate under TSE.

- This control uses the wd280xaml.dll library. This library cannot be renamed when creating the executable.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Simulating the absence of .Net 3.0 framework
<a name="simulating_the_absence_net_30_framework_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

When developing an application that contains a .Net control (WPF), it may be useful to find out how the application will operate when it is started on a computer not equipped with the .Net 3.0 framework (or later).

To simulate the absence of the framework on a computer:

- use the [XamlDisable](../WDLang1/1000015004.md) function.

- rename the following registry key: "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\.NETFramework\\v3.0".





