
## Word processing: Features
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## List of features
<a name="list_features_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>
The Word Processing control proposes the following features: 

- Standard formatting ribbon.

- Creating, reading and saving standard ".docx".

- Reading "RTF" files. 

- Reading and saving in HFSQL.

- Formatting: 

	- Font, size, color, bold, italic, underlined, subscript, superscript, alignment.

	- Background color of paragraph.

	- Border of a paragraph. 




- Displaying the line break and page break characters.

- Undo/Redo.

- Copy/Paste without formatting

- Print preview and print

- Export to PDF

- Management of indents

- Line spacing

- Space before/after

- Background color

- Ability to handle text programmatically ([DocXXX](../WDLang1/1000022618.md) functions, [Document](../WDLang1/1000022461.md), [docFragment](../WDLang1/1000022482.md), [docParagraph](../WDLang1/1000022483.md) types, etc.). 

- Spelling checker.

- Customizable formatting ribbon

- Find/Replace: 

	- available through programming

	- available in the ribbon of control.




- Table of contents (read-only). 

- Links (read-only, with ability to open the link with Ctrl + Click)

- Advanced underline (read-only)

- Tabulations and tab stops.

- Continuation points (read-only)

- Revisions (read-only)

- Image

	- Displaying existing images in the document (the WMF and EMF formats are not supported). 

	- Inserting images in PNG and JPEG format.




- Copy/Paste with formatting. 

- Zoom.

- Bullets and numbers. 
	Remarks: 

	- A carriage return on a numbered line continues the numbering for the new line. 

	- Pressing the "Backspace" key is used to go back to the previous level of bullets. 




- Automatic controls (date, time, document name, author, page number, number of pages)

	- available in display and in edit. 
			Remarks: 

		- The '$' character and the hexadecimal notation are not supported in the page numbers. 

		- The F9 key is used to update the controls. The option "Keep the formatting during each update" is supported.




- Date insertion. 

- Page numbering

- Sequence with report

- Specific ribbon options: 

	- Style

	- Page format, orientation, margins.

	- Borders

	- Inserting images and wrapping.




- Header and footer. 

- Tables.

- Rulers.

- Export in HTM format.

- Opening a docx file by Drag and Drop.

- Ability to customize the ribbon via an internal window.





