


## The Image Editor control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the Image Editor control
<a name="overview_the_image_editor_control_ELTTEXTE000228"></a>
The "Image Editor" control is a rich control that allows end users to create and edit images in their WINDEV applications or WEBDEV sites. There are many advantages: time saving, consistent interface, no other software to install/drive/manage. 

**This help page explains how to use the Image Editor control in a WINDEV application. For more details on how to use this control in a WEBDEV site, see [The Image Editor control (WEBDEV)](../WDChamp/1410087158.md).**

This control allows you to: 

- Open, create, modify, save image files, 

- Annotate images, 

- Merge images, 

- Rotate and flip images,

- Type text on an image,

- Print images, etc.




The ribbon of this control includes the most common actions. For more details, see [Image Editor control: Options in the ribbon and the panes](../WDChamp/1410087035.md).

Several keyboard shortcuts are also available: 

| Shortcut | Effect | Shortcut | Effect |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Ctrl + A | Selects the current layer. | Ctrl + C | Copies the selection to the clipboard. |
| Ctrl + N | Creates a new image. | Ctrl + 0 | Opens an existing image. |
| Ctrl + P | Prints the current image. | Ctrl + S | Saves the image. |
| Ctrl + T | Selects the current layer. | Ctrl + V | Pastes the content of the clipboard. |
| Ctrl + X | Cuts the selection and copies it to the clipboard. | Ctrl + Y | Redoes the last action. |
| Ctrl + Z | Undoes the last action. | Ctrl + mouse wheel | Changes the zoom. |

Remarks:

- The image editor supports animated GIFs.  

- The image editor automatically automatically recognizes freehand drawings. Thus, a line, a circle or a rectangle drawn freehand will be automatically recognized and redrawn.  




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating an Image Editor control
<a name="creating_image_editor_control_ELTTEXTE000252"></a>
**To create an Image Editor control**:

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Graphic controls" group, expand "Office" and click "Image Editor". 

2. Click at the desired location to create the control.




Remark: The dimensions of the control are optimized to take up the available space at the specified position. If the control size does not suit you, press Ctrl + Z: the control size will be reset to default.

To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Characteristics of the Image Editor control
<a name="characteristics_the_image_editor_control_ELTTEXTE000280"></a>


### Description window
<a name="description_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000129"></a>

The "General" tab in the description window of the Image Editor control includes the following options: 

- **With ribbon**: Used to display a ribbon at the top of the control. This ribbon contains different options for handling the image displayed in the control. You can: 

	- use the default ribbon. In this case "Ribbon source IW" corresponds to "None". 

	- customize the default ribbon.
			Simply select the default preset window in "Ribbon source IW". In this case, the "IW_WinDevAAF_RibbonPIC" window is automatically included in your project. This internal window (available in English and French) can be modified according to your needs. This window contains all the code required to manage the Image Editor control. It is recommended to check for UI errors and make sure the window works properly after any change is made. 

	- use an internal window to create a specific ribbon.
			Any internal window of your project can be used to create this ribbon.




- When using the ribbon, the option "Apply project skin template to ribbon" makes it possible to automatically use the project skin template on the selected ribbon. 

- **Allow change of document (Open, New, etc.)**: If this option is checked, the user will be able to load any document in the Image Editor control. Otherwise, the "Open" and "New" options will not be available. It will only be possible to edit the image in the control.  





### Formats supported by the Image Editor control
<a name="formats_supported_the_image_editor_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

The Image Editor control supports the following formats (in read/write): 

- JPG, JPEG, JPE

- BMP

- GIF

- Animated GIFs

- PNG

- ICO

- TIF

- WDPIC





