


## Check spelling based on Hunspell dictionaries
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000211"></a>
WINDEV allows you to use the integrated spelling checker on several controls in WINDEV applications: 

- Word Processing control.

- edit control.

- column of Table control in edit mode.




This spell check can be performed on the user computer via Hunspell dictionaries. These dictionaries can be easily found on Internet. These dictionaries include a ".dic" file and a ".aff" file with the same name that must be found at the same location. 

Remark: We recommend that you to comply with the distribution license of each dictionary file used. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Default operating mode
<a name="default_operating_mode_ELTTEXTE000235"></a>


### Default setting
<a name="default_setting_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

By default, if your project contains a control that uses a spelling checker (Word Processing, edit control, etc.): 

- The spelling checker is enabled in the controls, in English and French. 

- The FR and US dictionaries (and their readmexxx.txt licenses) are automatically copied into the generation directory of the application.




Remark: Up to version 23, the spelling in edit controls and Table columns was checked via OpenOffice. From version 24, it is possible to use the integrated spelling checker for these controls as well. 

To configure the spelling checker used by the project: 

1. Open the project description window: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. In the "Options" tab, in the "Spelling checker" area, select the spelling checker used for the project: 

	- Integrated checker: the spelling checker will be based on Hunspell dictionaries. 

	- OpenOffice checker: the spelling checker (on edit controls and Table columns) will be based on OpenOffice dictionaries. 








### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

The French and English dictionaries are automatically loaded. Spelling mistakes are underlined in red in the control. By right-clicking on the underlined word you can: 

- get a list of suggestions. 

- add the word to the Hunspell dictionary. In this case, the words added to the dictionary are stored in the following file: "C:\\Users\\&lt;User&gt;\\AppData\\Roaming\\PC SOFT\\perso.dic".




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Configuring the spell check
<a name="configuring_the_spell_check_ELTTEXTE000265"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

Several options and functions are used to configure the spell check: 

- [Disable the automatic copy of dictionaries](#NOTE3_2). 

- [Load the dictionaries manually and associate them with a language](#NOTE3_3). 

- [Enabling or disabling the spelling checker](#NOTE3_4). 



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Automatic copy of dictionaries
<a name="automatic_copy_dictionaries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000093"></a>

The management of dictionary copy is performed in the project options:  

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. In the "Options" tab, check or uncheck "Automatically copy the dictionaries to the generation directory". 

3. Validate. 



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Loading and associating dictionaries with a language
<a name="loading_and_associating_dictionaries_with_language_ELTPARAGRAPHE000120"></a>

You can use the [DictionaryLoad](../WDLang1/1000022958.md) function to load a Hunspell dictionary and associate it with a language or sublanguage. This function must be called before starting the spelling checker. 

Notes on the Word Processing control: 


- A docx document contains information about the document language. This information is used to identify the dictionary language that will be used. 

- If the dictionary corresponding to the document language is placed beside the executable, it is automatically loaded and used to correct the document. If the dictionary corresponding to the document language is not found, the spell check is not available. 

- When creating a docx document via the Word Processing control, the document language corresponds to the current application language (defined by [Nation](../WDLang1/3054014.md) for example).



<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Enable or disable the spelling checker
<a name="enable_disable_the_spelling_checker_ELTPARAGRAPHE000133"></a>

The spelling checker can be enabled: 

- by the end user (for the Word Processing control only): simply select "Enable spell check" in the ribbon of the Word Processing control. 

- programmatically with the [CheckSpell](../Proprietes/2510153.md) property.  

- in the control description window : 

	- In the Word Processing control: "Enable [Check spelling] by default" option ("General" tab). 

	- In the Edit control: "Check spelling" option ("Details" tab). 

	- In the columns of the Table control: "Check spelling" option (in the "Details" tab of the Text column description). 








