


## Creating and distributing Active WEBDEV Pages
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Transforming a page in Session mode into an Active WEBDEV Page
<a name="transforming_page_session_mode_into_active_webdev_page_ELTTEXTE000153"></a>
To transform a page in Session mode into an Active WEBDEV Page: 

1. Open the description of the current page ("Description" in the page popup menu).

2. In the "General" tab, in "Type of page", select "AWP". 

3. Validate.




**Where will the Active WEBDEV Page be saved?**
Once a dynamic page has been transformed into an Active WEBDEV Page, the page will be generated in AWP format in the &lt;Project Name&gt;_WEB directory of the project (in each subdirectory corresponding to the languages supported by the project).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Programming tips
<a name="programming_tips_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>


- The server code must be found in the initialization events (initialization of page or controls).

- The contexts must be managed through programming. The page must be positioned in the database (according to the parameters received in the URL for example). For more details, see [Displaying an Active WEBDEV Page from another page](../WDChamp/3539047.md).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Pro tip
<a name="pro_tip_ELTTEXTE000201"></a>


- **Refreshing an Active WEBDEV Page**: Refreshing an Active WEBDEV Page triggers all WLanguage events in the page. For example, if the Active WEBDEV Page allowed for an addition, refreshing the page will make that addition again.

- **WLanguage events**: The order of execution of WLanguage events when clicking on a Button control, for example, is as follows:

	- "Initializing" event of the project,

	- "Global declarations" event of the page,

	- "Initializing" event of the controls in the page,

	- "Initializing" event of the page,

	- "Click" event of the clicked Button control
			Whenever an action is performed in the Active WEBDEV Page, the corresponding HTML page is entirely rebuilt on the server.




- **Links**: You can create links programmatically (use the ***URL*** property on Link controls).

- **Links and buttons**: You should prefer the links and buttons without "submit". A "&lt;a href&gt;" link is generated in the page.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Limitations regarding the content and the programming of Active WEBDEV Pages
<a name="limitations_regarding_the_content_and_the_programming_active_webdev_pages_ELTTEXTE000225"></a>


- **First page of a project**: An Active WEBDEV Page cannot be the first page of the project in Session mode. An Active WEBDEV Page can be the home page of a project.

- **WLanguage trace functions**: Only the output into a file is available (*trFile* constant).

- **Dialog boxes**: The dialog boxes displayed by ***Confirm***, ***Error*** and ***Info*** are ignored if a page is displayed in the same process by ***PageDisplay***.

- **Global elements used in the project**: When modifying an element global to the project (global procedure, query, class, ...), the project must be recompiled in order to take these modifications into account in the relevant stand-alone Active WEBDEV Pages.

- **Pagers**: The pagers generated by RAD cannot be used in the Active WEBDEV Pages. Indeed, these controls use the project context (that does not exist in the Active WEBDEV Pages). These controls must be replaced with a programmed pager. Each link of the pager must display a page with specific data (page based on a query with parameters for instance). 
	All the records can also be displayed in a cell with scrollbar.
	The pager in AWP mode automatically manages the method for passing parameters, without programming. This type of pager allows you to reference all the linked pages and it avoids having to use cookies to store the current search. 

- **Table control**: The Table controls are limited (the tables based on a data file with Link columns do not operate anymore for example). They can be replaced with a looper (since links are built dynamically with the ***URL*** property).

- **Image control**: No generated image can be used in the Active WEBDEV Pages.

- **Element in memory (list box, combo box, looper):** The content of these elements is volatile. The content of these elements should be systematically filled in the initialization code of the page.

- **The value of the read-only controls** is lost and it must be recalculated whenever the page is displayed.

- **Size of Active WEBDEV Pages**: With large projects (containing several classes, global procedures or queries), the size of the generated Active WEBDEV Pages will be quite important.

- **Global server variables**: The global server variables of the project regain their default value whenever the page is accessed in case of stand-alone Active WEBDEV Pages. However, you can use [DeclareAWPContext](../WDLang2/3058028.md) or hidden controls associated with the desired value.

- **WINDEV or WEBDEV components**: The components handled by an Active WEBDEV Page are not found. They must be moved to the &lt;ProjectName&gt;_WEB directory.

- **Location of data files**: The location of data files must be performed in the project initialization code, via the following line of code for example:
	
	```wl
	HSubstDir("?", fDataDir())
	```


- **Relative URL**: The relative URLs created through programming in the home page of project must not be used.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Displaying an Active WEBDEV Page
<a name="displaying_active_webdev_page_ELTTEXTE000249"></a>
An Active WEBDEV Page can be displayed from a static page or from a dynamic page of a WEBDEV site.

An Active WEBDEV Page can be displayed:

- from the WEBDEV interface: simply select the Active WEBDEV Page to display when describing the link.

- through programming.




For more details, see [Displaying an Active WEBDEV Page from another page](../WDChamp/3539047.md).

<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## Installing the Active WEBDEV Pages on a server
<a name="installing_the_active_webdev_pages_server_ELTTEXTE000273"></a>
To install Active WEBDEV Pages on a server, you can: 

- use the standard setup of a site in Session mode. The AWP files are classified in the "Static HTML files" category.

- use **WDDeploy** or any other FTP client to install the file directly on the desired site.





