


## The Active WEBDEV Pages
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
You want to reference several pages of your WEBDEV site?

You want to send the address of one of your site pages?

Two solutions: 

- Use Active WEBDEV Pages in your WEBDEV sites. 

- use SEO-ready pages in Session mode. For more details, see [SEO-ready page in session mode](../WDChamp/2030055.md).  




Active WEBDEV Pages also allow you to set up webhooks or to get URLs that can be provided to JQuery. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## What is an Active WEBDEV Page?
<a name="what_active_webdev_page_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>


### Active WEBDEV Page
<a name="active_webdev_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

An Active WEBDEV Page (.AWP file) is a dynamic WEBDEV page **without context**. 
This page can be accessed **at any time** via a link such as: 

```txt
http://www.mysite.com/myAWPpage.awp
```


An Active WEBDEV Page can receive additional parameters in its URL.
Example: This page will display the product #3254 corresponding to the category 23. Even with these parameters, this page remains accessible at any time.


```txt
http://www.mysite.com/myAWPpage.awp?ProductID=3254&CategoryID=23
```


Active WEBDEV Pages are stand-alone pages (they require no library (WDL) to operate). Only the images used by the page must be found on the server.

**As soon as the Active WEBDEV Page is saved, the information specified can be used for SEO purposes**. Thus, the title and the name of the generated file are used by search engines. For better SEO, use a title and a file name (the latter is used to build the name of the file generated with the information displayed in the page). 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### WEBDEV site in Session mode with Active WEBDEV Pages
<a name="webdev_site_session_mode_with_active_webdev_pages_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

A WEBDEV site in Session mode can contain one or more Active WEBDEV Pages. Each one of these pages can be accessed directly and independently (without going through the first page in Session mode in the project).

You can:

- **reference each one of the Active WEBDEV Pages by the search engines**. In the above-mentioned example, the search engines will reference the product displayed by the page.

- **give the address of one or more Active WEBDEV Pages to a friend**. In our example, the page displayed will the one related to the requested product.

- **include one or more Active WEBDEV Pages in favorites**.

- **optimize the management of resources on the server**.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### CAUTION: The AWP mode is reserved to developers who are already familiar with WEBDEV.
<a name="caution_the_awp_mode_reserved_developers_who_are_already_familiar_with_webdev_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

A good knowledge of WEBDEV (including the concepts of sessions and contexts) is required to use this advanced mode. Indeed, the contexts must be managed through programming in this mode.
Some features specific to the automatic contexts may no longer operate in this mode.
Some constraints must be complied with when developing this type of pages.


