
## The AWP technology (Active WEBDEV Page)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000094"></a>
PC SOFT proposes a new technology: **the WEBDEV AWP technology (Activates WEBDEV Page )** .

This AWP (Active WEBDEV Page) method, dedicated to Internet, is used to easily manage the stand-alone dynamic pages, without context. This enables you to create a page whose content depends on a database but not on the content of other pages.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Benefits and limitations of the AWP technology
<a name="benefits_and_limitations_the_awp_technology_ELTTEXTE000118"></a>


### CAUTION: The AWP mode is reserved to developers who are already familiar with WEBDEV.
<a name="caution_the_awp_mode_reserved_developers_who_are_already_familiar_with_webdev_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

A good knowledge of WEBDEV (including the concepts of sessions and contexts) is required to use this advanced mode.

Indeed, the contexts must be managed through programming in this mode.

Some features specific to the automatic contexts may no longer operate in this mode.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### The benefits of the AWP mode are as follows:
<a name="the_benefits_the_awp_mode_are_follows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000031"></a>

- no consumption of resources on the server, 

- easy creation of simple dynamic sites, 

- better referencing of the Active WEBDEV Pages of the site, 

- persistence of pages (no timeout), 

- simplified update: when updating on an ad-hoc basis or when adding a page, each page can be uploaded separately without having to lock the Web users.




**The drawbacks are as follows:**

- the contexts must be managed through programming (the default management of the WEBDEV contexts can be used simultaneously in the same site), 

- no automatic positioning in the data files, 

- specific programming to generate the referenceable links, 

- some WEBDEV features are not available, 

- ...




**Reminder**: the AWP mode is reserved for developers who are familiar with WEBDEV.


