
## Handling HTML text in an Edit control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## The HTML format
<a name="the_html_format_ELTTEXTE000169"></a>
HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is a markup language intended for the web.

WEBDEV allows you to handle text in HTML via the "HTML format" option of the Edit controls and the [HTML control](../WDChamp/1013105.md).

- If the HTML text is displayed in a control that does not support HTML, the tags will be displayed. 

- If the HTML text is displayed in a control that supports HTML, the tags will be automatically interpreted and the text will be formatted accordingly.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## HTML Edit control
<a name="html_edit_control_ELTTEXTE000193"></a>


### Overview
<a name="overview_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

The edit control HTML permet: 

- to display a text in HTML format, 

- to enter a text in HTML format.




The control automatically stores entered text as HTML. This text will contain all the necessary formatting tags.


### Control characteristics
<a name="control_characteristics_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

The edit control HTML offers different options ("General" tab of the window of description of control ): 

- **HTML toolbar**: A formatting toolbar can be displayed above the Edit control. This toolbar allows the user to easily format the text entered. For more details, see [HTML formatting toolbar](../WDChamp/9500113.md).

- **Enter key action**: Allows you to define the operation of the Enter key used in the edit control HTML. 

- **Email editing**: Allows to propose a " Email " input mode which limits the HTML functionalities to those recognized by the majority of mail readers.

- **Content independent of page style**: Allows to apply only the style defined for the input part of the control. No other style will be added to the text displayed in the input part of the control. 




**Remark**: A given string will be longer in an HTML Edit control than in a standard Edit control, because HTML tags are added.


### WLanguage events associated with control
<a name="wlanguage_events_associated_with_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

The edit control HTML has all the WLanguage events associated with the input fields. For more details, see [Events associated with Edit controls](../WDChamp/1013229.md).  

The optional event "Key pressed" available in browser code allows for example to create a glossary, shortcuts on function keys, ...

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Defining the content of an HTML Edit control
<a name="defining_the_content_html_edit_control_ELTTEXTE000229"></a>
To define the content of an HTML Edit control, simply specify the [Value](../Proprietes/2510130.md) property (in the initialization code of the control, for example).

For example: 


```wl
// Lecture d'un fichier HTML
PageHTML est une chaîne
PageHTML = fChargeTexte(SysRep(srMesDocuments) + ["\"] + "index.html")

// Initialisation du champ de saisie
SAI_ChampHTML = PageHTML
```






<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Saving a text in an HTML file
<a name="saving_text_html_file_ELTTEXTE000253"></a>
HTML formatting is automatically applied to the text entered in an HTML Edit control.

**To save the content of an HTML Edit control** to an HTML file, simply use [fSaveText](../WDLang1/3036046.md) on the control.
<a name="NOTE5_2"></a>


### Example
<a name="example_ELTPARAGRAPHE000108"></a>

The example below creates an "index.html" file. This file contains the text entered in EDT_HTMLText. 


```wl
// Sélection du chemin et du nom du fichier
Nomfic est une chaîne
Nomfic = fSélecteur("", "", "Sélectionnez un fichier...", ...
		"Fichiers HTML" + TAB + "*.html" + RC + "Tous fichiers (*.*)" + TAB + "*.*", ...
		"HTML", fselCrée + fselExiste)

// Enregistrement
fSauveTexte(Nomfic, SAI_TexteHTML)
```

<a name="NOTE5_3"></a>




### Saving HTML text to an HFSQL data file item
<a name="saving_html_text_hfsql_data_file_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000118"></a>

To save HTML text to an item of a data file, it is recommended to bind the Edit control to a Text Memo item.

As HTML includes many tags, "Character string" items are often too small.


