
## Automatic calculations in a Table control (AAF)
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
In the Table and TreeView Table controls, the end user has the ability to add automatic calculations. These calculations are available for all types of columns. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying (or not) an automatic calculation
<a name="displaying_not_automatic_calculation_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>


### Displaying an automatic calculation
<a name="displaying_automatic_calculation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000016"></a>

To display an automatic calculation in a table column: 

1. Open the context menu of the requested column. 

2. Select "Automatic calculation (sum, average, ...)" then select the requested calculation type: 

	- Sum

	- Number of elements

	- Average

	- Minimum

	- Maximum




3. The calculation is automatically performed and it is added below the table. It is always visible. 




Caution: 

- The popup menu used to add or delete automatic calculations is not available for all types of columns. 

- The popup menu for adding or deleting automatic calculations is not available on "Direct access" Table controls with more than 1000 rows (in order to optimize calculation times). 

- The execution of the automatic calculations in a Table control (top or bottom of the control and breaks) is a synchronous process.





### Deleting an automatic calculation
<a name="deleting_automatic_calculation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

To delete an automatic calculation from a table column: 

1. Open the context menu of the requested column. 

2. Select "Automatic calculation (sum, average, ...)" then select the type of calculation to delete: 

	- Sum

	- Number of elements

	- Average

	- Minimum

	- Maximum




3. The calculation is automatically deleted for the selected column. 
	Caution: If the calculation exists for other columns, the calculation line will still be displayed below the table. 




Caution: The popup menu used to add or delete automatic calculations is not available for all types of columns. 





<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Programming
<a name="programming_ELTTEXTE000185"></a>


### Proposing an automatic calculation
<a name="proposing_automatic_calculation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000069"></a>

Automatic calculations are proposed by default in the context menu of table columns (for the types of columns that allow them). 

Reminders: 

- An automatic calculation can be displayed in a Table or TreeView Table control. Simply define the calculation to perform in the column description window. For more details, see [Calculations in the columns of a Table control](../WDChamp/1013201.md). 

- Custom automatic calculations can also be added into the columns of a Table control. For more details, see [Programming custom calculations in the tables](../WDChamp/1013331.md). 





