
## WDZip: Handling files in an archive
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
The compressed files found in an archive can be handled by **WDZip**.

The files found in the archive can be:

- [Extracted (decompressed) to a destination directory](#NOTE2_1).

- [Deleted from the archive](#NOTE3_1).

- [Sought, if the archive contains several files for example](#NOTE4_1).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Extracting files from an archive
<a name="extracting_files_from_archive_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>
The file will be extracted from the archive and decompressed to a destination directory. The file is not deleted from the archive.

**To extract one or more files found in an archive**:

1. Open (if necessary) the ".wdz", ".zip", ".cab" or ".7z" archive containing the files to extract (select "File .. Open an archive" in WDZIP.

2. Click the "Extract" button (or "Extract all") or select "Action .. Extract the selected file..." (or "Action .. Extract all the files..."). The window for configuring the extraction is displayed.

3. Specify the directory where the files will be decompressed.

4. Specify whether the files must be extracted ***with their tree structure***: The files will be decompressed in the specified directory and the tree structure of the file will be added to it (the disk is not kept). The directories are automatically re-created if they do not exist anymore.
	If this option is not checked, the files will be decompressed in the specified directory.
	**Remark**: If the backup of file paths was not specified when creating the archive, the files will be automatically extracted without their tree structure.

5. Validate.




**Caution**: To extract a file from an archive, the archive must be [single-part](../WDLang3/3082015.md) and it must be accessible in read/write.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Deleting files from an archive
<a name="deleting_files_from_archive_ELTTEXTE000181"></a>
The file will be erased from the list of files found in the archive. This file is not decompressed.

**To delete one or more files found in an archive**:

1. Open (if necessary) the ".wdz", ".zip", ".cab" or ".7z" archive containing the files to delete. Select "File .. Open an archive" in WDZIP. 

2. Select the file(s) to delete.
	**Reminder**: To select several files simultaneously, keep the Ctrl key down when selecting files.

3. Click the "Delete" button or select "Action .. Delete a file".
	**Remark**: If no file is selected, WDZIP proposes to delete all the files from the archive.

4. Confirm the deletion of the selected file(s).




**Caution**: To delete a file from an archive, the archive must be [single-part](../WDLang3/3082015.md) and it must be accessible in write mode.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Finding files in an archive
<a name="finding_files_archive_ELTTEXTE000205"></a>
To search for a file in an archive: 

1. Open (if necessary) the ".wdz", ".zip", ".cab" or ".7z" archive containing the files to find (select "File .. Open an archive" in WDZIP.

2. Click the "Find" button or select "Action .. Find a file". A search window is displayed.

3. In this search window, specify the name of the full path of the file to find and validate. The sought file is automatically selected.


**Caution**: To find a file in an archive, the archive must be [single-part](../WDLang3/3082015.md) and it must be accessible in read/write.


