
## Transmitting elements to the Free Technical Support
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Sending an email to the Technical Support
<a name="sending_email_the_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000093"></a>
To send an email to the Technical Support, you must necessarily use the tool named TechSupportRequest that is used to normalize the format of the emails transmitted to the Free Technical Support and to shorten the response time.

For more details, see [How to contact the Free Technical Support](../Support/4010005.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Sending a folder to the Technical Support
<a name="sending_folder_the_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
If a Technical Support representative asks you to send some elements, follow these steps:

- <u><u><u><u>isolate</u></u></u></u> the problem, 

- *only* send the necessary windows or pages,

- provide a modifiable version of these elements,

- describe the operations that must be performed with these elements.




Each set of elements must include a clear description to know the purpose of the request, and include the information needed to process the request (detailed series of actions to reproduce the problem).

The serial number of the product must be clearly stated on all the documents sent to the Free Technical Support.

**Important**: Unfortunately, requests without a description cannot be processed.

*In any case, please avoid sending the entire application!*

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Create a backup for the Technical Support
<a name="create_backup_for_the_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
To send elements to the Technical Support via physical media or through the Internet, use the application backup tool included in WINDEV: on the "Project" tab, in the "Other actions" group, expand "Backup/Restore" and select "Make a project backup".

Check whether all the application elements required to reproduce the problem are included in the backup.

If necessary, deselect the application elements that are not required to reproduce the problem.


