
## How to contact the Free Technical Support? 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## The available methods
<a name="the_available_methods_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>




- By email (recommended)
	To send an email to Technical Support, you must necessarily use the tool named **TechSupportRequest.**This tool is used to standardize the format of the emails transmitted to the Free Technical Support and to reduce the response time.
	This tool can be used from your version of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile: on the "Home" tab, in the "Online help" group, expand "Help" and select "Request to Technical Support". Then, simply follow the instructions on screen.

- By phone (in French only) +33 (0)4.67.03.17.17 (from 9:00 to 12:00 and from 14:00 to 18:00)


**Remark**: In most cases, an email is processed within 24 or 48 hours.

Please do not attach files whose size exceeds 9 MB to your email without the prior agreement of your recipient. This type of attachment is automatically deleted by the system.

**The phone number of the Free Technical Support is not surtaxed.**

If the number rings busy, it means that all the technicians are on the line helping other customers, and all the queues are busy as well. In this case, retry later (or send an email)

Note: we process over 100 000 requests a year, we may make a mistake or not understand a question. If you are not satisfied with a response, just send an email or a fax with your initial question, the response that was made to your question and your comment. We will reply again.

**Is your application strategic?**

**You need exclusive support?**

**You require immediate answers?**

**"[Direct Assistance](../Support/4010004.md)", a custom service, is available in addition to the Free Technical Support. It allows you to interact with a designated support engineer: access via a dedicated phone number; your call is processed on the same day. This custom service is available via a subscription.**


