
## Writing to the Free Technical Support 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
When you encounter a problem, try to isolate it and to reproduce it by using the minimum number of elements.

If you send us some source code, limit the number of lines (up to 30 lines unless directed otherwise by your recipient).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## 7 essential points
<a name="7_essential_points_ELTTEXTE000145"></a>


### Isolate
<a name="isolate_ELTPARAGRAPHE000019"></a>

When you encounter a problem, try to isolate it and to reproduce it by using the minimum number of elements.

If you send us some source code, limit the number of lines (up to 30 lines unless directed otherwise by your recipient).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Reproduction steps
<a name="reproduction_steps_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

To insure a fast and quality response to your request, may we insist on the importance of providing us with precise and clear directions on how to reproduce the problem you are contacting us about.

Detail precisely all the steps to take to reproduce your problem.

Don't forget that the person who will process your request doesn't know anything about your application, and that nothing will be obvious to him/her.

Thank you for being as precise as possible in the reproduction protocol.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Clarity
<a name="clarity_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

Clearly describe the object of your request.

Never refer to a previous email.

The more precise you are, the faster we will be able to help you.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Message
<a name="message_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

If error messages have been displayed, indicate their entire text.
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Workaround
<a name="workaround_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

Describe in details the solutions and methods you used to try to resolve or work around the problem encountered.
<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### Hardware
<a name="hardware_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

A lot of "software" errors are caused by hardware problems.

Check your computer.

Check your network: configuration, cabling, addressing, etc.

Check your video, printer and network drivers

Perform a SCANDISK to make sure that no file is corrupted. If a module is corrupted, just reinstall this module from your backup or from the product CD in order for the problem to disappear.
<a name="NOTE2_7"></a>


### Subject
<a name="subject_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

Make sure that the subject of your request is related to PC SOFT.

The Free Technical Support does not answer questions about the API functions, the Word Basic commands, the Windows configuration, the TCP/IP configuration, the network configuration, etc. For these problems contact the publisher of the system or subscribe to ["Assistance Directe (R)"](../Support/4010004.md).


