
## PC SOFT Free Technical Support
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000130"></a>
Thank you for buying one of our products.

Now you have access to our Free Technical Support.

You can address 15 requests to the Free Technical Support, for the current product version. 



**How to reach the Free Technical Support?**

To reach the Free Technical Support (for the current version), simply register. To do so: 

1. Start the desired IDE: WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile. 

2. In the ribbon, go to the "Home" tab, "Online help" group, expand "Help" and select "Register product". 

3. The product is registered via a specific webpage. Enter the requested information and validate. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Contact the Free Technical Support
<a name="contact_the_free_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000154"></a>
The Technical Support can be reached via the TechSupportRequest tool. 
It can be accessed from WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile: on the "Home" tab, in the "Online help" group, expand "Help" and select "Request to Technical Support". Then, simply follow the instructions on screen.

For more details, see [How to contact the Free Technical Support](../Support/4010005.md).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Read this section before you contact the Free Technical Support
<a name="read_this_section_before_you_contact_the_free_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000178"></a>
The Free Technical support will answer **precise questions about the use of WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile** (for the current product version). It gives you additional information about the features and functions of these three IDEs. It can guide you through critical points. It can help you find the source of errors found in your programs.

The purpose of the Free Technical Support is not to replace the necessary training steps.

Before you contact the Free Technical Support, you must have followed the "Tutorial" in order to get acquainted with the development environment of the product. This is the minimum investment to make the most of both your product and the Free Technical Support.

Before contacting the Free Technical Support, please read the online help on the problem you are dealing with!


