
## Before calling the Free Technical Support 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Before you call
<a name="before_you_call_ELTTEXTE000083"></a>
Before you call us, take the necessary first steps to investigate the problem: restart Windows, run the debugger, read the documentation corresponding to the error messages

Before you call:

- **Write down your serial number**. This is your mandatory "password"!

- Write down your questions so you don't forget any.

- Break down the issue in smaller parts that cannot be broken down anymore. Each part corresponds to an incident. Each question must correspond to a single incident (see "[Describing a problem to the Free Technical Support](../Support/4010001.md)").

- Find out the characteristics of your hardware and write them down (operating system, Windows version, specific programs: mainframe connection, I/O card, ...).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## When you call
<a name="when_you_call_ELTTEXTE000107"></a>


- Be in front of your computer.

- The documentations of the product are available.

- Be ready to write down notes.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Scope of the Free Technical Support
<a name="scope_the_free_technical_support_ELTTEXTE000131"></a>
The free Technical Support cannot cover every single scenario. Specifically, the Free Technical Support cannot do the following:

- write processes, 

- answer questions about a programming language other than WLanguage,

- debug a program, 

- answer questions not related to WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile (Windows API functions, DDE syntax specific to a software, etc.), 

- validate algorithms or analyses.




These requests can be addressed by [Assistance Directe](../Support/4010004.md), our subscription-based service. Don't hesitate to contact our Sales Department for additional information.


