


## GglUploadDocument (Function)

***In french: GglEnvoieDocument***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Uploads a document to the Google server.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
Cnt is gglConnection
...
// Connection
IF GglConnect(Cnt) = False THEN
	Error(ErrorInfo())
ELSE
	// Upload a Word file
	GglUploadDocument(Cnt, "C:\Docs\file.doc") 
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = GglUploadDocument(<Google connection> , <Document path> [, <Source language> [, <Destination language>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the file was successfully uploaded,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if a problem occurs. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Google connection>: (gglConnection variable)`**

Name of the [gglConnection](../WDLang5/1000018009.md) variable to be used. This connection was validated by [GglConnect](../WDLang5/1000017332.md).

**`<Document path>: (Character string)`**

Name and full (or relative) path of file (up to 260 characters). A UNC path can be used.

**`<Source language>: (Character string)`**

Current language of the document. This parameter is used to define the source language for translating the document. This parameter corresponds to the country code in ISO639-1 standard. The list of country codes in ISO639-1 format can be found at the following address: [http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php](http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php)
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), Google tries to automatically detect the language of the document. 
Caution: When using the "Drive" API, this parameter is no longer taken into account.

**`<Destination language>: (Character string)`**

Language of the document found on the server. This parameter is used to translate the document when uploading the file. This parameter corresponds to the country code in ISO639-1 standard. 
The list of country codes in ISO639-1 format can be found at the following address: [http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php](http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php). 
Caution: When using the "Drive" API, this parameter is no longer taken into account.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Possible error cases: 
<a name="possible_error_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

- The Internet connection is not valid.

- The authentication was not performed properly.

- The path of the document does not exist, the format of the document is not supported or the document is too big.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Types of files supported by Google
<a name="types_files_supported_google_ELTPARAGRAPHE000105"></a>

- PowerPoint presentation files (ppt and pps extensions). Size limit: 10 MB. 

- HTML files, text files, Word files (doc extension), OpenDocument Text files (odt extension), RTF files, Star Office files (sxw extension): 500 KB.

- Files corresponding to worksheets (csv, xls and ods extensions): 1 MB.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000116"></a>

- The characteristics of a document found on the Google server are managed via the [gglDocument](../WDLang5/1000018001.md) variables. To find out the characteristics of all the documents found on a Google server, use [GglListDocument](../WDLang5/1000017367.md): this function fills an array of gglDocument variables.

- The Web interface is used to:

	- include a document in a folder.

	- give a title to the document.

	- mark the documents as "starred".


 These elements are not managed by programming in this version.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280ggl.dll
