


## Using the Salesforce service 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000112"></a>
Salesforce is a very popular CRM software. It is commercialized as Saas (Software as a Service), which means that the application and the data are hosted on server farms by Salesforce.

However, specific requirements are often created by this type of software. The development of additional modules is a big benefit when using and customizing this type of software.

The WLanguage Salesforce functions allow your applications to natively interface with Salesforce.

**Warning**: Before using a feature linked to the Salesforce services, we strongly recommend that you check the license for using this service. Some restrictions may apply. The content of the licenses may change over time.

PC SOFT is in no case responsible for the way the native access functions are used. Make sure that you comply with the license of the service provider.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>


### Connecting to Salesforce
<a name="connecting_salesforce_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

To be able to use a Salesforce function of WLanguage, you must connect to the Salesforce platform. This connection is established via [SFConnect](../WDLang5/1000017583.md) ([&lt;sfConnection variable&gt;.Connect](../WDLang5/1000018756.md) in prefixed syntax) and an [sfConnection](../WDLang5/1000017579.md) variable.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Using the Salesforce features
<a name="using_the_salesforce_features_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

The WLanguage Salesforce functions are used to:

- read, modify and add records in the files of Salesforce databases. These files can be preset files or custom files.

- merge records.

- convert "Lead" into account, contact or opportunity.

- request the execution of a specific process. You can submit records to the approval process or perform an approval action.




For more details, see [list of Salesforce functions](../WDLang5/1000018464.md).


