


## WDDeploy features
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000197"></a>
WDDeploy is used to:

- [install the files of a static site on a Web server](#NOTE2_1).

- [compress and group the files of a remote site in archives](#NOTE3_1).

- [restore the files found in an archive](#NOTE4_1).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing the files of a static site on a Web server
<a name="installing_the_files_static_site_web_server_ELTTEXTE000221"></a>
To install the files of a static site on a Web server:

1. Start WDDeploy: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDDeploy".

2. Create or select the profile corresponding to your site. The characteristics are entered in several tabs:

	- **General information**:

		- name of the profile. 
						A default name is automatically given to the profile. This name can be modified.

		- location of local files of the site ("&lt;MyProject&gt;_WEB" subdirectory for a static WEBDEV site).

		- address of WEBDEV site.

		- deploy a single language for the site. If this option is selected, your site can be deployed in one of the languages supported by the project. Caution: in this case, your site must not use any options or functions allowing to change the language or to support several languages.




- **Connection**

	- location of files of deployed site (network directory or FTP server).

	- characteristics of the FTP server used to update the site (deployment via FTP only). 
						These characteristics are supplied by the hosting company. 
						Remark: To use an SFTP server, type an address such as "sftp://&lt;Server address&gt;".

3. Click the "Prepare" button. WDDeploy prepares the list of files to install. 
	For an update, WDDeploy compares the files found on the development computer and the files already installed.

4. Specify (if necessary) the different actions that must be performed during the synchronization on the different files to install:

	- "Local copy" button: copies the selected files from the remote site to the local site.

	- "Remote copy" button: copies the selected files from the local site to the remote site.

	- "Remote deletion" button: deletes the selected files from the remote site.

	- "No action" button: performs no operation on the selected files.




5. Click the "Synchronize" button. The site files are automatically copied to the location specified in the profile.




Remarks: 

- The "Options" button is used to specify the synchronization options. For more details, see Remarks.

- When creating a new profile, a wizard helps you enter the parameters and offer preset profiles fro the main hosts.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Compressing and grouping the files of a remote site in archives
<a name="compressing_and_grouping_the_files_remote_site_archives_ELTTEXTE000245"></a>
To compress and group the files of a remote site in archives:

1. Start WDDeploy: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDDeploy".

2. Click on "Save".

3. Enter the name of the archive to create (".WDZ" file) and specify the creation directory. The files found in the remote site specified in the profile are automatically compressed and grouped in the created archive.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Restoring the files found in an archive
<a name="restoring_the_files_found_archive_ELTTEXTE000269"></a>
To restore the files found in an archive:

1. Start WDDeploy: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Web utilities" group, click "WDDeploy".

2. Click the "Restore" button.

3. Select the archive file (".WDV" file) to restore.

4. Select the directory in which the files found in the archive must be restored and validate.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000293"></a>
The options of WDDeploy are as follows: 

- "**Display the tooltip on the table of files**": displays a tooltip that describes for each hovered file:

	- the name of the file as well as the date and time of file creation on the development computer.

	- the name of the file as well as the date and time of file creation on the deployment computer.




- "**Don't process the subdirectories**": does not take into account the sub-directories of the local site when the site files are deployed.

- "**Don't propose to modify the local site, even if the remote files are more recent**": does not update the remote files more recent on the development computer. When preparing for synchronization, WDDeploy will not propose to replace the local files by the remote files (even if the remote files are more recent).

- "**Don't display that files that are already synchronized**": displays the files modified since the last synchronization only.





