
## Native SQL Server Connector: Executing the same stored procedure multiple times
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000177"></a>
In some cases, it may be useful to execute the same stored procedure multiple times by changing one or more parameters.

**Several solutions can be implemented**: 

1. Execute the query directly (with [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md)) as many times as necessary and change the desired parameter(s) each time.

2. Prepare the query to be executed (with [HPrepareSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044119.md)) as well as the different parameters to be changed. Then, execute the query as many times as necessary with [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md). This solution is much faster and optimizes the time it takes to loop through the result of a query (SELECT query).




**This help page explains how the second solution can be implemented**.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000201"></a>


### Steps
<a name="steps_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

To prepare and execute a query multiple times:

1. **Declare a data source**. This data source will contain the result of the SQL query.

2. **Declare the types of the query variables**.
	The variables are retrieved in the type specified in WLanguage. The variables are text variables by default.
	Therefore, conversions may occur between the native type of the database and the WLanguage type, causing unexpected rounding or formatting errors (Date transformed into string for example).
	Therefore, we advise you to specify the WLanguage types of the variables with great care before running the query. To do so:

	- initialize the value of the variable (simple types: integer, string, float).

	- specify the expected type with the [Type](../Proprietes/2510131.md) property (not supported in this version).
			The name of these variables must correspond to the name of the procedure parameters on SQL Server.
			**Remark**: In some cases, the server does not accept to perform an implicit conversion. A conversion error is displayed. In this case, you must initialize the type by defining any ordinary value in the selected type.
			For example, to define a numeric type, use MyQuery.Parameter=0.




3. **Prepare the query** with [HPrepareSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044119.md).

4. Specify the value of the different parameters to take into account and run the query with [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md). Only the name of the data source that corresponds to the query must be specified.


This last step must be repeated as many times as necessary.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Running the stored procedure with HExecuteSQLQuery
<a name="running_the_stored_procedure_with_hexecutesqlquery_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

[HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md) must be used with:

- the connection name,

- the **hQueryWithoutCorrection** constant. 

- the name of the procedure. The procedure name must be followed by the parameters (including the @ character). To specify the output parameters, you must specify 'out' or 'output'. The parameters must be separated by commas.




**Compatible mode**:
If the query contains only the procedure name, the Native SQL Server Connector automatically adds the parameters of the stored procedure.
Caution: If some parameters have a default value and if they are not referenced by the WLanguage code, a non-referencing error will occur on the variable. In this case, you must either modify the code for calling the query by defining the mandatory parameters, or explicitly declare the optional variable.

**Example**:
Code for creating the procedure:


```txt
CREATE PROCEDURE MyProc(@p1 int, @p2 int, @res int output)
AS set @res=@p1+@p2
```


Code for running the procedure: p1 is a mandatory parameter and p2 is an optional parameter. The following code triggers an error because the Native Connector access expected p2 in the query:


```wl
MyProcedure is Data Source
MyProcedure.p1 = 10
IF HExecuteSQLQuery(MyProcedure, "MyConnection", ...
	hQueryWithoutCorrection, "MyProc") THEN
	Trace("p1=" + MyProcedure.p1) 
ELSE
	Error(HErrorInfo())
END
```


The following code must be used:


```wl
MyProcedure is Data Source
MyProcedure.p1 = 10
IF HExecuteSQLQuery(MyProcedure, "MyConnection", ...
	hQueryWithoutCorrection, "MyProc @p1, @p2 out") THEN
	Trace("p1=" + MyProcedure.p1) 
ELSE
	Error(HErrorInfo())
END
```

<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000105"></a>

- The declared variables must be identical to the ones used. Otherwise, a WLanguage error occurs.

- In the call to the stored procedure, you must use the syntax specific to the database used, including for the syntax of parameters. Therefore, for SQL Server, the parameters are specified with the following syntax: **@ParamName**. 
	Caution: the "@" character must be followed by at least one letter (the syntax @1 is not allowed). 
	The same parameter can be used several times. In this case, the corresponding variable will be reused.

- Return value (functions):
	 To retrieve the return value, you must declare a variable and assign the function result to this variable.

- To execute a query without enabling the bind option, use the ***hNoBind*** constant in [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md).

- [HPrepareSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044119.md) cannot be used to prepare a stored procedure that returns records or columns. You must use [HExecuteSQLQuery](../WDLang4/3044084.md).

- **The Native SQL Server Connector allows the re-execution of any queries that contain a user variable**. You can re-run a query that uses a variable and change the value of this variable at each execution.
	Example:
	
	```wl
	MyProcedure is Data Source
	IF NOT HPrepareSQLQuery(MyProcedure, "MyConnection", hQueryWithoutCorrection, ...
		"SELECT * FROM AUTHORS WHERE au_lname like @p1") THEN
		 Error(HErrorInfo())
	END
	
	MyProcedure.p1 = "Hemingway"
	HExecuteSQLQuery(MyProcedure)
	HReadFirst(gSource)
	
	MyProcedure.p1 = "Faulkner"
	HExecuteSQLQuery(MyProcedure)
	HReadFirst(gSource)
	```






