
## 2. User-friendly editors in practice
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087214.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087442.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Introduction
<a name="introduction_ELTTEXTE000191"></a>
WEBDEV is designed around editors, which adapt to the developer's needs and are integrated into a single environment:

- [project editor.](#NOTE2_1)

- [data model editor.](#NOTE2_2)

- [UML editor.](#NOTE2_3)

- [query editor.](#NOTE2_4)

- [page editor.](#NOTE2_5)

- [report editor.](#NOTE2_6)

- [code editor, debugger and compiler.](#NOTE2_7)

- [image editor.](#NOTE2_8)




These editors allow you to create the different elements (pages, reports, databases, programs, etc.) used by the site.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Types of editors
<a name="types_editors_ELTTEXTE000215"></a>


### Project editor
<a name="project_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

The project editor allows you to manage the project using a comprehensive dashboard.
Various widgets allow you to see:

- the number of project elements,

- the registered incidents,

- the tasks to be performed,

- the checked out elements,

- ...



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Data model editor
<a name="data_model_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

The data model editor allows you to describe the characteristics and structure of the data files.

The data model editor supports the Merise method (CDM and LDM).

The data model editor supports two types of database descriptions:

- direct description of the analysis linked to the project (also called Logical Data Model (LDM))

- description of the Conceptual Data Model (CDM) and automatic generation of the analysis.




Let's see some characteristics of the data model editor:

- WYSIWYG editor ("What You See Is What You Get"). You can directly view all the data files and links of your project.

- Creation and description of the data files and their items.

- Automatic formatting of the analysis links.

- Information about the links via tooltips.

- Simplified retrieval of the description of an external database (SQL Server, Oracle, etc.).

- Independent data file descriptions.

- Encryption of data files.

- Automatic modification of the data files when the structure of the files changes.

- Verification of the referential integrity.

- Automatic generation of the analysis.

- Zoom in the data model editor.

- Insertion of comments in the graph of the analysis.

- Relation between the different panes and elements of the analysis.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### UML editor
<a name="uml_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

UML is a visual language that can be used to:

- represent an information system using objects.

- generate the object structure of the application (structure of the application in the form of object classes) that corresponds to the information system being analyzed.


The UML editor is mainly used to:

- describe one or more UML diagrams.

- build a UML model by reverse engineering the project.


For more details on how to create a UML model, see [UML models](../Concepts_WB/1410087459.md).

Let's see some characteristics of the UML editor:

- Creation and description of UML diagrams.

- Automatic formatting of links.

- Automatic generation of a class (or set of classes) from a class diagram.

- Zoom in the UML editor.

- Insertion of comments in a UML model.

- Relation between the different panes and elements of the UML model.



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Query editor
<a name="query_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The query editor allows you to automatically create queries based on data files. 
Programming is simplified: for example, pages, reports, Table or Combo Box controls can be based on the queries.

A wizard helps you create queries: choose the items you want to include and enter the selection conditions via the wizard. The query is automatically generated (in optimized SQL code) and can be tested immediately.

Let's see some characteristics of the query editor:

- WYSIWYG editor ("What You See Is What You Get"). You can directly view the query and its result.

- Easy query creation via a wizard.

- Automatic generation of the SQL code for each query.

- Ability to test queries immediately.

- Zoom in the query editor.




For more details, see the online help about the query editor.
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Page editor
<a name="page_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000074"></a>

The page editor allows you to describe the characteristics of the project's UI.

Multiple templates, skins and types of pages are available. They help you make your pages and sites more user friendly.

Let's see some characteristics of the page editor:

- WYSIWYG editor ("What You See Is What You Get"). You can view directly your pages as they will appear to the user.

- Creation and description of pages and controls.

- Drag and drop to copy, paste or move controls from one page to another.

- Page templates and preset control styles.

- Icon catalogs to associate images with controls.

- Real-time interface checker to position controls more easily.

- Ability to enter the captions of the controls directly in the editor work area.

- Context-sensitive help in the pages.

- Zoom in the page editor.

- Relation between the different panes and elements of the editor.



<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### Report editor
<a name="report_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000098"></a>

The report editor allows you to easily create reports that can be printed.

Let's see some characteristics of the report editor:

- WYSIWYG editor ("What You See Is What You Get"). You can directly view the reports as they will be printed.

- Easy-to-create, zero-code reports.

- Drag and drop to copy, paste or move controls from one report to another.

- Report skin templates and preset control styles.

- Real-time interface checker to position controls more easily.

- Use of a form in a report background.

- Creation of multi-column labels.

- Ability to edit a report in HTML (to publish it on the Internet for example) or RTF (to use it in a word processing software).

- Zoom in the report editor.




For more details, see the online help about the report editor.
<a name="NOTE2_7"></a>


### Code editor
<a name="code_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

The code editor allows you to write all processes/events in WLanguage (programming language common to WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile). For example, it allows you to enter the source code of the following elements:

- controls, 

- windows or pages, 

- reports, 

- local and global procedures,

- classes and methods, etc.




Let's see some characteristics of the code editor:

- Automatic formatting.

- Automatic completion.

- Glossary of functions.

- Typing error detection and spelling checker.

- Incremental compilation.


View of the different WLanguage events associated with a page, control or report in the project.



- Insertion of WLanguage events specific to the use of the mouse or keyboard.

- History of code changes and ability to roll back.

- Ability to open multiple code windows (to compare code, for example).

- Zoom in the code editor.

- Relation between the different panes and elements of the editor.




For more details, see the online help about the code editor.
<a name="NOTE2_8"></a>


### Image editor
<a name="image_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000116"></a>

The image editor allows you to edit images and icons in the project and its elements. 

Let's see some characteristics of the image editor:

- Crop. 

- Resize.

- Symmetry, rotation.

- Text.

- Layers.

- Access to image catalog.

- Transparency.




| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087214.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087442.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




