
## 1. Testing a site: Elements to be tested
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087479.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087467.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
Tests play an essential role in the development of a site. A test checks the behavior and usability of the site.

The main points to check in a WEBDEV site are as follows:

- ***how the site works***:
	sequence of pages, execution of code typed, etc.




- ***appearance of the site***:
	use different browsers (Internet Explorer, Chrome, FireFox, Edge, etc.), use different screen resolutions, resize the browser, etc.




- ***Web-specific features***:
	print, cookies, browser "Back" key, etc.




- ***access to the site by different users***:
	management of usernames and passwords, management of concurrent accesses to the data files, etc.




- ***regression of a site during an update***:
	validation of the changes made in a site and verification to ensure that non-modified features are still accessible.




- ***load test*** (for a site installed on the server):
	validation of the maximum number of users who can access the site.




**Remark**: To determine the coverage of tests run, WEBDEV includes a "Code coverage" analysis. Code coverage is used to measure the coverage of tests run on a site. Each line of code run is considered as "tested".
Caution: The code coverage does not allow you to know if tests are successful: it only allows you to know whether a line of code has been executed.

The code coverage is used to detect the lines of code that have never been executed.

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087479.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087467.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




