
## 8. If you are already familiar with WINDEV
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087109.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087111.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
Let's see the main differences between WEBDEV and WINDEV:

- WEBDEV is used to create pages while WINDEV is used to create windows.

- WEBDEV accepts different types of code: a WLanguage code run on the server, a WLanguage code run on the browser and a JavaScript code run on the browser. 
	When a PHP page is created, an additional code appears: a PHP code run on the server.

- New WLanguage functions specific to the Web are available.

- Some WLanguage functions not relevant for the Web do not exist anymore.

- Some WLanguage functions can only be used in a process/event meant to be executed in server code.

- Some WLanguage functions can only be used in a process/event meant to be executed in browser code.

- New types of controls specifically designed for Web applications are available:

	- Formatted display control,

	- Java Applet control,

	- Sliding Banner control, 

	- Navigation Bar control, 

	- Captcha control, 

	- Cell control, 

	- Breadcrumb control, 

	- Web Component control, 

	- IFrame control,

	- Link control,

	- Line control, 

	- Internal Page control,

	- Peeling Corner control, 

	- Site Map control, 

	- Popup control,

	- Pager control, 

	- Social Network control, 

	- SilverLight control, 

	- HTML Table control, 

	- Upload control,

	- Thumbnail control, 

	- Rich Text Area control.




- Some types of controls that are not used on Internet are no longer available: Scrollbar, ActiveX, OLE Object, Spin, etc.




| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087109.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087111.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




