
## 16. Protecting access to the site: passwords
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087473.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087475.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
Protecting the access to a site using passwords is necessary in two cases:

1. Protecting personal information.

2. Restricting the access to a site.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Protecting personal information
<a name="protecting_personal_information_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>
Users can specify a password to access personal information. In a business site, a password can be defined to access the details of previous orders.

In this case, accessing a site requires:

- an authentication:
	When users log in for the first time, they must enter their username and password.
	Next time they log in, they will be able to access specific information (history, etc.).

- an option to let users recover their passwords.




**WEBDEV is provided with all the resources required to manage personal passwords.**

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Restricting the access to a site
<a name="restricting_the_access_site_ELTTEXTE000170"></a>
By default, a website is accessible to any user. But a site is not always intended for the general public: some features can be reserved to some types of users (site administrator, etc.). 

In this case, the site manager assigns a password to each user. This password cannot be modified. This password gives access to specific features.

For example, in a business site:

- a specific password will be assigned to salespeople: they will be able to access sales statistics, etc.

- a specific password will be assigned to the members of the marketing team: they will be able to publish new products.




**WEBDEV allows you to easily manage these different types of access to a site**.

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087473.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087475.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




