


## Project Monitoring Center: Statistics
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000108"></a>
When managing a project, you must keep track of some indicators to understand the evolution of the project, its schedule, ...

The Project Monitoring Center proposes a statistical window that displays:

- the time spent per project for one ore more contributors, 

- the time spent per contributor on a project, 

- the time spent per task for a project and a contributor, 

- the time spent per interruption task, 

- a progress line (or "Burn down"). 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying the statistics
<a name="displaying_the_statistics_ELTTEXTE000132"></a>
To display the statistics of the Project Monitoring Center: 

1. Display the "Statistics" tab (or create a new "Statistics" tab). 

2. In the ribbon, select:

	- the type of statistics, 

	- the project and the affected contributors, 

	- the list of requirements (for the burn down), 

	- the type of tasks (for the burn down), 

	- the period, 

	- the display options (scale used, display of the legend, ...).




3. Display the chart (click the image displayed by default or the "Refresh" button).




**Remark**: To display a burndown chart, the daily data collection must be enabled on the server (option proposed by the Project Monitoring Center when selecting this type of statistics). The progress line will be done from the activation date of this collection.


### Progress line (Burn down)
<a name="progress_line_burn_down_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>

The progress line includes a curve and two tendency lines.

- The curve represents the scheduled workload. The number of scheduled days evolves with the project. The real development speed is impacted by the "reality" (for example: meetings, seminars, training, debugging old applications, forgotten tasks, absences, ...)

- The first tendency line represents the tendency of the curve. This tendency indicates the theoretical end date of project (or iteration).

- The second tendency line represents the tendency while taking into account the performance of previous projects. In the "Display" group of "Statistics" tab, you have the ability to choose: 

	- the requirements or the list of requirements for the previous iteration. 

	- the speed takin into account for the previous iteration. 








