
## Native Progress Connector: Specific features and remarks 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000183"></a>
The following paragraphs present the main aspects and specific features of the Native Progress Connector.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Main remarks
<a name="main_remarks_ELTTEXTE000207"></a>


### Required versions
<a name="required_versions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

**Caution**: This version of the Native Progress Connector works with WINDEV 28 and/or WEBDEV 28.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Using WLanguage commands in SQL queries
<a name="using_wlanguage_commands_sql_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000029"></a>

WLanguage commands cannot be used in SQL queries. 
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Unicode items
<a name="unicode_items_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

Unicode items are not supported by Native Progress Connector. We advise you to use text items in Ansi format and to perform the conversion (if necessary) with [UnicodeToAnsi](../WDLang1/3024025.md).

[HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) will display an error message when data files containing items in Unicode format are created.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Required table
<a name="required_table_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

The "sysprogress.systables" table must be accessible in read mode to the connected user. Otherwise, an error ("Version of Progress not supported") is displayed.
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### UPDATE query on a memo
<a name="update_query_memo_ELTPARAGRAPHE000057"></a>

Progress does not allow you to perform an UPDATE query on a Memo item (LVARBINARY). However, WINDEV and WEBDEV give you the ability to update the memo by using [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md) (the record is deleted then added).
<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### Inserting more than 100 records with a memo
<a name="inserting_more_than_100_records_with_memo_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

Inserting more than 100 records containing a memo item triggers the error #9799. This error is referenced beside Progress (reference P26935).

To avoid this error, close the connection before the 100th record, then re-open the connection.
<a name="NOTE2_7"></a>


### Text memo and binary memo
<a name="text_memo_and_binary_memo_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

In a Progress database, all the memos are binary memos. However, a text can be saved in the binary memos.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Specific features of Native Progress Connector
<a name="specific_features_native_progress_connector_ELTTEXTE000267"></a>


### Analysis options
<a name="analysis_options_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

- The analysis options regarding full-text indexes are not supported by the Native Connector.

- The analysis options regarding the partial indexing of text memos are not supported by the Native Connector.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>




### Queries
<a name="queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

No search, filter or sort (ORDER BY) can be performed on aggregate columns (Min, Max, etc.).
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Memo
<a name="memo_ELTPARAGRAPHE000101"></a>

- The memos exceeding 2 MB cannot be inserted.

- [SQLGetMemo](../WDLang4/3072020.md) or [SQLGetTextMemo](../WDLang4/3072012.md) cannot be used to retrieve a memo in a text string. You must use [HExtractMemo](../WDLang4/3044072.md). This problem will be fixed in a forthcoming version.



<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Closing the connection and transaction
<a name="closing_the_connection_and_transaction_ELTPARAGRAPHE000117"></a>

If the transaction was not ended, a General Protection Fault may occur when closing the connection. This problem will be fixed in a forthcoming version.
<a name="NOTE3_5"></a>


### Accented characters in the aliases
<a name="accented_characters_the_aliases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000124"></a>

If an alias contains accented characters, you must:

- enclose the alias in double quotes, 

- use the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant when running a query that is using this alias.



<a name="NOTE3_6"></a>


### HFSQL lock
<a name="hfsql_lock_ELTPARAGRAPHE000134"></a>

The record locks CANNOT be used with the HFSQL functions in this version.


