
## WDAdminHF: Saving the databases
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000163"></a>
The remote HyperFileSQL administrator is used to perform backups of the HyperFileSQL Client/Server data files. 

This backup can be performed: 

- [from the server](#NOTE2_1). The backup of the database or the backup of all the server databases are kept on the server and they can be restored. 

- [from a database](#NOTE3_1). The backup of the data files is performed in an archive that can be downloaded at the end of the operation. 






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Backup from the server: How to?
<a name="backup_from_the_server_how_ELTTEXTE000193"></a>


### Perform a backup
<a name="perform_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

To perform a backup:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Backups".

3. Click the "New backup" button. The wizard for creating a backup starts.

4. Specify the content of the backup:

	- The entire content of the server.

	- A specific database.

	- A selection of databases and/or files.




5. Specify whether the backup must contain the index files (index files with a NDX extension and full-text index files with a FTX extension). If the index files are not saved, the size of the backup will be reduced but the restore time will be longer. 
	Remark: if the index files are not saved, the passwords of the files must be specified during the restore operation to allow their reindexing.

6. Specify the backup directory. If this name corresponds to a relative path, the backup will be performed in the "Backup" subdirectory of the HFSQL server. The wizard is used to define a "backup" subdirectory ("Backup" by default). The date and the time (in "Year\\Month\\Day\\Time-Minute" format) can be added to the name of the directory in order to easily identify the backup.
	Remark: The backups are performed in a numbered subdirectory ("backup\\Backup\\1" for example. Therefore, if several backups are performed, the corresponding files will not be overwritten by a new backup.

7. Give a description to your backup and validate.

8. The backup is automatically started. The progress of the backup can be monitored in the HFSQL Control Center.




Remark: You also have the ability to perform a backup from the "Backups" option of a database.




### Performing a scheduled backup
<a name="performing_scheduled_backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

To perform a scheduled backup:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Scheduled tasks".

3. Click the "Create" button. The wizard for creating a scheduled task starts.

4. Specify the scheduling options: 

	- runtime month: every month, some months

	- runtime day: every day, some days of the week or some days of the month

	- execution time: at fixed time or during the day on a regular basis




5. Indicate the content of scheduled task: 

	- a stored procedure

	- a backup




6. If you choose to start a stored procedure, specify:

	- the name of the database containing the stored procedure to run, 

	- the name of the set of procedures containing the stored procedure to run, 

	- the name of the procedure to run.




7. Validate the wizard. The scheduled task is created. 

8. If you choose to start a backup, specify the content of the backup:

	- The entire content of the server.

	- A specific database.

	- A selection of databases and/or files.




9. Specify whether the backup must contain the index files (index files with a NDX extension and full-text index files with a FTX extension). If the index files are not saved, the size of the backup will be reduced but the restore time will be longer. Remark: if the index files are not saved, the passwords of the files must be specified during the restore operation to allow their reindexing.

10. Specify the backup directory. If this name corresponds to a relative path, the backup will be performed in the "Backup" subdirectory of the HFSQL server. The wizard is used to define a "backup" subdirectory ("Backup" by default). The date and the time (in "Year\\Month\\Day\\Time-Minute" format) can be added to the name of the directory in order to easily identify the backup.
	Remark: The backups are performed in a numbered subdirectory ("backup\\Backup\\1" for example. Therefore, if several backups are performed, the corresponding files will not be overwritten by a new backup.

11. Give a description to your backup and validate.

12. The backup will be automatically started according to the specified scheduling. The backup can be monitored in the remote HFSQL administrator.





### Operations on the backups
<a name="operations_the_backups_ELTPARAGRAPHE000088"></a>

The remote HFSQL administrator allows you to handle the different backups performed. You can:

- Perform a backup.

- Restart a backup.

- Restore a backup.




To perform these operations:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Backups".

3. Select the backup to handle and click the button corresponding to the requested action.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Backup from a database: How to?
<a name="backup_from_database_how_ELTTEXTE000229"></a>
To perform a backup:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Databases". 

3. Select the requested database and click the "Access the selected database" link. 

4. Select "Backups".

5. Specify the name of the archive (Zip file) that will contain the data files saved. 

6. Specify whether the archive file must be downloaded on the user computer at the end of the operation. 

7. Select the data files to save. 

8. Click the "Save" button to start the backup. 





