
## WDAdminHF: Scheduled task
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000119"></a>
The remote HFSQL administrator is used to define the scheduled tasks. These scheduled tasks can correspond to: 

- the call to a stored procedure, 

- a backup. 




The call to a stored procedure is used to run the code of your choice, for example custom maintenance, editing statistics, ... 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000149"></a>


### Creating a scheduled task
<a name="creating_scheduled_task_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To create a scheduled task:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Scheduled tasks".

3. Click the "Create" button. The wizard for creating a scheduled task starts.

4. Specify the scheduling options: 

	- runtime month: every month, some months

	- runtime day: every day, some days of the week or some days of the month

	- execution time: at fixed time or during the day on a regular basis




5. Indicate the content of scheduled task: 

	- Stored procedure: specify the name of the database and the name of the set containing the stored procedure, then select the procedure.
			Caution: In order for a stored procedure started from a scheduled task to access the data, you must use [HDeclareExternal](../WDLang4/3044204.md). This function is used to declare the data sources that will be used in the processes of the stored procedure. Indeed, when a stored procedure is started from the remote HFSQL administrator, there is no current analysis and the HFSQL Client/Server data is not immediately accessible.
			If [HDeclareExternal](../WDLang4/3044204.md) is not used in the code of the stored procedure, the procedure will trigger a fatal error, notified in the log of system events.
			Remark: when a stored procedure is started by [HExecuteProcedure](../WDLang4/3044358.md) from a WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile application, it uses the application analysis and can directly use the HFSQL Client/Server data.

	- Backup:

		- Specify the elements that will be saved: the server content, a specific database or a selection of databases.

		- Specify whether the backup must contain the index files (index files with a NDX extension and full-text index files with a FTX extension). If the index files are not saved, the size of the backup will be reduced but the restore time will be longer. Remark: if the index files are not saved, the passwords of the files must be specified during the restore operation to allow their reindexing.

		- Specify the backup directory. If this name corresponds to a relative path, the backup will be performed in the "Backup" subdirectory of the HFSQL server. The wizard is used to define a "backup" subdirectory ("Backup" by default). The date and the time (in "Year\\Month\\Day\\Time-Minute" format) can be added to the name of the directory in order to easily identify the backup.
						Remark: The backups are performed in a numbered subdirectory ("backup\\Backup\\1" for example). Therefore, if several backups are performed, the corresponding files will not be overwritten by a new backup.




6. Give a description to your scheduled task and validate.

7. The scheduled task is automatically displayed in the remote HFSQL administrator.





### Deleting a scheduled task
<a name="deleting_scheduled_task_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

To delete a scheduled task:

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server. 

2. Select "Scheduled tasks".

3. Select the scheduled task to delete.

4. Click the "Delete" button.





