
## Remote HFSQL administrator: Overview
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000114"></a>


### The HFSQL administrator
<a name="the_hfsql_administrator_ELTPARAGRAPHE000010"></a>

The remote HFSQL administrator is a WEBDEV site installed with the WEBDEV application server and used to remotely manage the HFSQL Client/Server databases installed on the Web server. 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Starting the remote HFSQL administrator
<a name="starting_the_remote_hfsql_administrator_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>
To use the remote HFSQL administrator, the site manager must know the address for starting the remote HFSQL administrator.

On a Windows server, this address has the following format:


```txt
http://Server/WD260AWP/WD260AWP.EXE/CONNECT/WDAdminhf260
```


where Server corresponds to the name of Web server where WEBDEV application server is installed. This name can be:

- an IP address (for example: 192.168.1.130).

- the computer name (for example: DocPC).




On a Linux server, this address has the following format:


```txt
http://Server/WD260AWP/WD260AWP/CONNECT/WDAdminhf260
```
or


```txt
http://Server/WD260AWP/WD260Awp.exe/CONNECT/WDAdminhf260
```


where Server corresponds to the name of Web server where WEBDEV application server is installed. This name can be:

- an IP address (for example: 192.168.1.130).

- the computer name (for example: DocPC).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Interface of the remote HFSQL administrator
<a name="interface_the_remote_hfsql_administrator_ELTTEXTE000168"></a>
When starting the remote HFSQL administrator, a connection page is displayed. The following information must be specified: 

- the name or address of the HFSQL server, 

- connection port, 

- the username and the associated password (ADMIN without password by default). 




To do so, click the "Connection" button to access all the options available on the specified server. 

The remote HFSQL administrator is used to manage the HFSQL Client/Server databases. You have the ability to get information and to handle: 

- [the server](../WDAdminHF/1000019701.md),

- [the database](../WDAdminHF/1000019702.md),

- [each database file](../WDAdminHF/1000019703.md). 





