
## WDAdminHF: Managing the data files
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
The remote HFSQL administrator proposes a full management of the HFSQL Client/Server databases. 

**To display the characteristics of an HFSQL Client/Server data file**: 

1. Connect to the requested HFSQL server via the remote HFSQL administrator. 

2. Select "Databases". 

3. Select the requested database and click the "Access the selected database" link. 

4. The displayed options are the options available on the current database. Click "Files". 

5. Click the name of the data file to manage. The available options are displayed. 






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Details of available options
<a name="details_available_options_ELTTEXTE000167"></a>


### Connections
<a name="connections_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

This option lists the different users connected to the current data file.

The list of active connections contains the following information:

- the username,

- the computer name,

- the name of the application that accesses the database, etc.




You have the ability to manage the connections from this page: allow or forbid the connections, disconnect the users or send a message to the users.


### Description
<a name="description_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

This option is used to display the description of the different items in the data file (item name, size, type, etc.).


### Properties
<a name="properties_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

This option is used to display the properties of the data file (physical name, format, protection, etc.)


### Search
<a name="search_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

This option is used to perform a search in the data file. You have the ability to enter the search conditions in an explicit way.


### SQL query
<a name="sql_query_ELTPARAGRAPHE000055"></a>

This option is used to perform a search in the data file. You have the ability to directly enter the SQL code of the query to run.


### Rights
<a name="rights_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

This option is used to manage the rights on the data file for the selected user or group.


### Locks
<a name="locks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

This option is used to manage locks.

The following information is displayed:

- the number of the locked record, 

- the name of the user who is locking, 

- the name of the locking computer, 

- the IP address of the locking computer, 

- the name of the locking application, 

- the lock start date, 

- the lock duration.





### Log
<a name="log_ELTPARAGRAPHE000080"></a>

This option is used to view the content of the logs and to perform a search in the logs.

The file must be logged.




### Maintenance
<a name="maintenance_ELTPARAGRAPHE000088"></a>

This option is used to free a record or all transactions. 


