
## Natif DB2 Connector for WINDEV and WEBDEV
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
WINDEV and WEBDEV propose an optional Native Connector to DB2 (also called "Native Access to DB2"). This Native Connector allows you to access a DB2 database from a WLanguage program without using any external driver.

**Caution**: This version of the Native DB2 Connector works with WINDEV and WEBDEV only.





<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>


### Conditions for using Native DB2 Connector
<a name="conditions_for_using_native_db2_connector_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

- DB2 version 7.1 or later (Native Connector tested by us with versions 8.2 and 10). 

- The DB2 client on each computer accessing DB2.

- ***DB2CLI.DLL*** must be accessible:

	- from the development computer, 

	- from the deployment computer.






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### The necessary files
<a name="the_necessary_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

The following files are required to use Native DB2 Connector:

- in 32-bit: 

	- ***DB2CLI.DLL***. This DLL is installed by the 32-bit client layer of DB2. See the license agreement of DB2 for more details about the distribution conditions of this DLL.

	- ***wd280db2.dll***. Required for Native Connector to a DB2 database in 32-bit mode. This file is supplied with Native Connector for DB2.









- in 64-bit: 

	- ***DB2CLIO.DLL***. This DLL is installed by the 64-bit client layer of DB2. See the license agreement of DB2 for more details about the distribution conditions of this DLL.

	- ***wd280db2_64.dll***. Required for Native Connector to a DB2 database in 64-bit mode. This file is supplied with Native Connector for DB2.







<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>


### To use Native DB2 Connector in your WINDEV applications or in your WEBDEV sites
<a name="use_native_db2_connector_your_windev_applications_your_webdev_sites_ELTPARAGRAPHE000057"></a>

To use DB2 in native mode, you must program:

- With the "SQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with SQL functions](../WDDB2/5510002.md)).

- With the "HFSQL" functions of WLanguage (see [Programming with HFSQL functions](../WDDB2/5510003.md)).




Remark: For more details, see [the limitations regarding the use of Native DB2 Connector](../WDDB2/5510007.md).


