
## Native MariaDB Connector: Specific features
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000148"></a>
The Native MariaDB Connector creates "InnoDB" tables to support locks and transactions on a MariaDB database. 

See the MariaDB documentation for more details on this type of table.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Use
<a name="use_ELTTEXTE000172"></a>


### Use case
<a name="use_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000019"></a>

If your server is not configured to support "InnoDB" tables, MariaDB automatically creates an ISAM table (default type in MariaDB). Refer to the MariaDB documentation to learn more more about the server configuration required to support "InnoDB" tables.

**Native MariaDB Connector**: [SQLLock](../WDLang4/3072003.md) and [SQLTransaction](../WDLang4/3072029.md) can be used to manage locks and transactions only on MariaDB tables of type "InnoDB".

If you want to specify another type of table (other than "InnoDB"):

- run the CREATE TABLE SQL command

- use the MariaDB management tool. In this case, do not use [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) in your program. [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) deletes the table ("DROP TABLE" command) if it already exists in order to recreate it.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Looping through tables (data files)
<a name="looping_through_tables_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

When looping through a MariaDB table, the records are not retrieved all at once but by blocks of 100 records. This value corresponds to a read "cache". This feature optimizes read operations started with [HReadFirst](../WDLang4/3044051.md)/[HReadNext](../WDLang4/3044037.md) as well as with the HReadSeekXXX functions.

**Remark**:  When reading the next block, the records with items that have the same values as the last record read will not be selected by the query used to fill the "cache".

*Example*: The MariaDB table named "MyTable" contains the following records:


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| **Record number** | **Value** |
| ... | ... |
| 98 | Tata |
| 99 | Toto |
| 100 | Toto |
| 101 | Toto |
| 102 | Tutu |


The code is as follows:


```wl
FOR EACH MyTable
	Trace(MyTable.Value)
END
```


The trace window will display the following values:

- Tata

- Toto

- Toto

- Tutu




One record is absent (Record #101 whose value is "Toto").


