
## Native MariaDB Connector: Programming with SQL functions
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000123"></a>
The SQL functions can be used to handle the MariaDB database.

**Differences compared to HFSQL programming**: The use of SQL functions to handle MariaDB data does not require importing the file structure into the analysis. However, the data must be handled by queries only. The content of MariaDB files cannot be read directly.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Programming
<a name="programming_ELTTEXTE000153"></a>


### 1. Establishing the connection
<a name="1_establishing_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000020"></a>

[SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md) opens a connection to a MariaDB database via the Native Connector. The type of database used (MariaDB in this case) must be passed as parameter to **SQLConnect**.

**Remark**: The name of the MariaDB data source ("MariaDBDatabase") is the name of the computer where the database is available or its IP address. In any case, the name of the "Database" must be specified.


```wl
ConnectionNum = SQLConnect("MariaDBDatabase", "", "", "", "MariaDB")
// or ConnectionNum = SQLConnect("MariaDBDatabase", "User", "Password", ...
// "MyDataBase", "MariaDB")
 
// Connection to a remote MariaDB database
ConnectionNum = SQLConnect("192.168.1.51", "User", "Password", "test", "MariaDB")
```

<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### 2. Running queries
<a name="2_running_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000033"></a>

The queries are run by [SQLExec](../WDLang4/3072007.md). **SQLExec** expects the text of the SQL query as parameter, as well as the name that will be given to this query.


```wl
SQLExec("SELECT LASTNAME, FIRSTNAME, EXTENSION, PHOTO FROM CUSTOMER", "QRY1")
```

<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### 3. Retrieving the result
<a name="3_retrieving_the_result_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

Several methods can be used to retrieve the result:

- [SQLFirst](../WDLang4/3072017.md): Retrieves the result and starts an [SQLFirst/SQLCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md) browse.

- [SQLTable](../WDLang4/3072031.md): Retrieves the result of the query in a Table control populated programmatically in the WINDEV application or WEBDEV site. The result of the query can be retrieved by partial Fetch.

- [SQLFetch](../WDLang4/3072011.md): Used to browse the different lines of the query result. The browse performed in the query result is an [SQLFetch/SQLGetCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md) browse.




[SQLLock](../WDLang4/3072003.md) is used to lock the table records or the records selected by the query. The timeout to lock or modify a locked record is set to 50s by default on MariaDB. The database will return an error when the timeout is reached.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### 4. Closing the connection
<a name="4_closing_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

[SQLClose](../WDLang4/3072015.md) is used to close the connection to the database once all the necessary queries have been run.


