
## ServiceWait (Function)

***In french: ServiceTemporise***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Pauses the current service during the specified duration.

**Remark**: This function is ignored if it is not called in a Service application.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// -- Running the service (called in loop) --

// Main loop of the service
// Check the presence of files in the directory
sFileList is string
sFileList = fListFile("c:\temp\entry\*.*", frNotRecursive)

// If files have been included in the directory, they are processed by the service
IF sFileList <> "" THEN
	ProcessFileList(sFileList)
END

// Wait during 10 seconds between two loops
ServiceWait(10*100)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`ServiceWait(<Wait>)`
---

**`<Wait>: (Integer ou Duration)`**

Timeout defined for the current thread of service (in hundredths of a second). This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Tips
<a name="tips_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

- A Service application runs the "Service execution" event in a loop. To avoid consuming the computer's processor resources, **ServiceWait** must be used at the end of this event.

- [Multitask](../WDLang1/3015004.md), [Wait](../WDLang1/3015012.md) or [ThreadPause](../WDLang1/3077029.md) must not be used in a Service application.





### Use mode
<a name="use_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

**ServiceWait** is required if the service code does not perform the timeout by itself.
The execution of **ServiceWait** is automatically ended if a request for stopping the service occurs.

Let's see a classification of types of services and the use cases of **ServiceWait**.

- **Category 1**
	When **ServiceWait** is useless: when the service waits for an external request. For example: 

	- a server for communicating by sockets that waits for a connection request ([SocketWaitForConnection](../WDLang3/3070006.md))

	- a service that waits for an external signal ([EventWait](../WDLang1/3077007.md))

	- a service waiting for an internal synchronization of threads. 


 In these cases, **ServiceWait** has no effect. However, a specific stop code must be used to interrupt the wait. 
	**Remark**: A standard service proposes services to the other processes: therefore, it is waiting for external "commands" and is in category 1 for which **ServiceWait** has no effect.

- **Category 2**
	When **ServiceWait** is not very useful: checks in quick loops (one second). For example, checking the status of a database file one a regular basis. 
	 The service stays for less than one second in the timeout and [ThreadPause](../WDLang1/3077029.md) is sufficient. In a stop is requested, this stop will be performed at the end of the loop, therefore after a wait of a few seconds.

- **Category 3**
	When **ServiceWait** is very useful: checks spaced out in time. For example, processing a spool of files in a directory with directory checks every 5 minutes.
	 **Remark**: In this case, a schedule task is recommended.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
