


## mlzInsertLine (Function)

***In french: zmlInsèreLigne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Inserts a new dynamic row in a Multiline Zone control. This row is added at the position specified in the zone of the dynamic rows.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add a network
nRow is int = 4
mlzInsertLine(MZ_Network, nRow)
MZ_Network[nRow].STC_NetworkName = "Network"
MZ_Network[nRow].IMG_Available.Visible = True
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`mlzInsertLine(<Multiline Zone control> , <Position>)`
---

**`<Multiline Zone control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Multiline Zone control to be used. 

**`<Position>: (Integer)`**

Index of row to add. 
Index "1" corresponds to the first row of the Multiline Zone control. All rows are numbered (static rows and dynamic rows). 
If the Multiline Zone control contains static rows and dynamic rows, the number of static rows must be taken into account.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of inserted dynamic row
<a name="characteristics_inserted_dynamic_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

- The inserted dynamic row is empty by default. 

- To customize the row (caption, color, visibility of elements, etc.), the controls must be modified by the following syntax: 
	
	```txt
	<Multiline Zone control>[<Index>].<Control name>.<Property> = <Value>
	```

	For example: 
	
	```wl
	mlzInsertLine(MZ_Products, nRow)
	MZ_Products[nRow].STC_NameProdRow = stRow.sProdCap
	MZ_Products[nRow].STC_NameProdRow.Color = LightBlue
	MZ_Products[nRow].EDT_QtyRow = stRow.nQuantity
	```


- The inserted row is not selected by default. To select the added row, the value of the subscript must be assigned to the row of the Multiline Zone control. 
	For example: 
	
	```wl
	mlzInsertLine(MZ_Products, nRow)
	MZ_Products = nRow
	```
or
	```wl
	mlzInsertLine(MZ_Products, nRow)
	MZ_Products.Value = nRow
	```


- When adding the dynamic row, the initialization processes of the controls in the row are run. 

- The size of the Multiline Zone control is modified to take the inserted row into account: the control is enlarged to the bottom. If controls are located below the Multiline Zone control, they are moved to the bottom. The useful window height is enlarged accordingly: it is possible to scroll through the window with your finger to see the bottom of the Multiline Zone control and the controls that may be located below this zone. 



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Error case
<a name="error_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000111"></a>

An error occurs in the following cases: 

- no dynamic row is defined in the Multiline Zone control. 

- more than 300 dynamic rows are found in the Multiline Zone control

- one of the initialization events of the row controls triggers an error.  





