


## TreeMapDelete (Function)

***In french: TreeMapSupprime***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deletes an element from a TreeMap control.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Delete the "Recipes\Dessert\Vanilla ice cream" element
TreeMapDelete(TMAP_Recipes, "Recipes\Dessert\Vanilla ice cream")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Deleting a TreeMap element by specifying its subscript

`TreeMapDelete(<TreeMap control> , <Element index>)`
---

**`<TreeMap control>: (Control name)`**

Name of TreeMap control to use.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the TreeMap control to which the current event belongs.

**`<Element index>: (Integer)`**

Index of the element to be deleted. The function has no effect if this subscript does not correspond to a control element.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Deleting a TreeMap element by specifying its path

`TreeMapDelete(<TreeMap control> , <Element path>)`
---

**`<TreeMap control>: (Control name)`**

Name of TreeMap control to use.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the TreeMap control to which the current event belongs.

**`<Element path>: (Character string)`**

Path of element to delete. The function has no effect if this path does not correspond to a control element.
**Remark**: This path must be identical to the one used when the element was added into the TreeMap control by [TreeMapAdd](../WDLang1/1000018814.md). 
The separator of different path elements can be: 

- the "\\" character. For example: "MyDirectory\\MyFile". 

- the "TAB" character. For example: "Desserts"+TAB+"Ice cream".






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Element index
<a name="element_index_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

The subscript of the element is returned by the following functions: 

- [TreeMapAdd](../WDLang1/1000018814.md).

- [TreeMapInfoXY](../WDLang1/1000018899.md).

- [TreeMapSeek](../WDLang1/1000019739.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
