


## InKioskMode (Function)

***In french: EnModeKiosque***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Indicates whether the Android application is in kiosk mode. 

In this mode, users' actions are limited: 

- users are prevented from leaving the application,

- users cannot run other applications,

- users cannot access the device settings,

- users do not see or receive notifications or calls.


For more details, see [Application in kiosk mode](../WDLang3/1000024431.md). 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// If the application is in kiosk mode
IF InKioskMode() THEN
	...
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = InKioskMode()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the application is currently in kiosk mode, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Simple or full kiosk mode
<a name="simple_full_kiosk_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

Two kiosk modes are available: 

- Simple kiosk mode: when [KioskEnable](../WDLang3/1000024425.md) is used, a message asks the user to confirm that the application has switched to kiosk mode. 

- Full kiosk mode: the application is also in "Device Owner" mode, no message is displayed to the user. To find out if the application uses this mode, use [InDeviceOwnerMode](../WDLang1/1000024428.md). 




If the application is in simple kiosk mode, **InKioskMode** returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> only when the user validates the swtich-to-kiosk confirmation message. 
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Availability of the function
<a name="availability_the_function_ELTPARAGRAPHE000206"></a>

**InKioskMode** can be used in all IDEs to allow for cross-platform code. Functions or procedures that use **InKioskMode** can be shared between several products without generating any compilation error.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Running processes containing compilation errors
<a name="running_processes_containing_compilation_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000220"></a>

By default, the security mechanism of WLanguage is triggered only if the line containing the compilation error is run.

For example, if a function not allowed in the current product is found in a loop (IF), the security mechanism of WLanguage will be triggered only if the line containing this function is run.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280wm.dll
