


## &lt;List Box&gt;.SelectPlus (Function)

***In french: &lt;Liste&gt;.SelectPlus***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Selects one or more elements in a List Box, ListView or Combo Box control.

The element is selected but it is not displayed if it is not visible. To make the selected element visible, use [&lt;List Box&gt;.Position](../WDLang1/1000017335.md). 

**Reminder**: The selected element corresponds to the current element onto which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectPlus** can be used on:

- List Box controls based on a data file or populated programmatically,

- single-selection or multi-selection List Box controls.











<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Select the element at index 7 in "LIST_CustomerList"
LIST_CustomerList.SelectPlus(7)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<List Box control>.SelectPlus([<Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<List Box control>: (Control name)`**

Name of List Box (or Combo Box) control to use.

**`<Index 1>: (Optional integers)`**

Index of the first element to be selected. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are selected. 
**&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectPlus** has no effect if these parameters correspond to elements that are already selected.



**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the Nth element to be selected. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are selected. 
**&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectPlus** has no effect if these parameters correspond to elements that are already selected.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Last element
<a name="last_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000259"></a>To position on the last element of List Box control, use the following syntax:

```txt
<List Box control>.SelectPlus(<List Box control>.Count)
```
or


```txt
<List Box control> = <List Box control>.Count
```

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Equivalence
<a name="equivalence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000284"></a>

For a single-selection List Box control without calling [gStoredValue](../WDLang1/1410088363.md), the two following syntaxes are equivalent:

```txt
<List Box control>.SelectPlus(<Index>)
```


and


```txt
<List Box control> = <Index>
```

<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000307"></a>

- To select an element in a Table control, use [&lt;Table&gt;.SelectPlus](../WDLang1/1000024287.md).

- **&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectPlus** can be used on a "Combo Box" table column.

- [&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus](../WDLang1/1000017393.md) allows you to deselect the elements of a List Box or Combo Box control.



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
