


## InsertLine (Function)

***In french: InsèreLigne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Inserts a row at a given position:

- into a two-dimensional WLanguage array.

- into an advanced two-dimensional array property (xlsDocument, etc.).




**Remark**: This function is equivalent to [ArrayInsertLine](../WDLang1/3075014.md).








<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyArray is array of 2 by 3 strings
InsertLine(MyArray, 1, "AT", "B", "C")
InsertLine(MyArray, 2, "a", "b", "c")
InsertLine(MyArray, 3, "D", "E", "F")
// Display the content of the 3rd row
Trace(MyArray[3,1], MyArray[3,2], MyArray[3,3]) 
// Displays "D E F"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`InsertLine(<WLanguage array> , <Insertion index> [, <Element column 1> [... [, <Element column N>]]])`
---

**`<WLanguage array>: (Array)`**

Name of the Array variable to use. This array must be a two-dimensional array.

**`<Insertion index>: (Integer)`**

Index where the row must be inserted. From this index, all rows will move by 1 position. 
If &lt;Insertion index&gt; is equal to the number of rows in the array +1, the row is added at the end of the array (equivalent to [ArrayAddLine](../WDLang1/3075013.md)). 
A WLanguage error occurs if &lt;Insertion subscript&gt; is greater than the number of rows in the array +1.

**`<Element column 1>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the row that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a column in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added to the array. The columns are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding column is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.



**`<Element column N>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the row that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a column in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added to the array. The columns are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding column is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Inserting a row
<a name="inserting_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000108"></a>

When **InsertLine** is called:

- the array is automatically enlarged to receive the new row.

- the elements are converted (if necessary) into the type of the other array elements.




When declaring an array of N by M elements, this array contains N empty rows. For example, the array declared below contains 3 empty strings.
**Remark**: When declaring an array of N by M elements, this array contains N empty rows. For example, the array declared below contains 3 empty rows.


```wl
MyArray is array of 3 by 2 strings
```

Rows inserted using **InsertLine** are automatically inserted among the existing rows in the array.

In our example, the array will contain 4 rows once the insertion is performed.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Inserting a row into an advanced array property
<a name="inserting_row_into_advanced_array_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000130"></a>

When **InsertLine** is called:

- the advanced variable must be created.

- the advanced type must have an enumerator of modifiable collection type.

- the advanced type is automatically enlarged to receive the new row.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000143"></a>

- This function cannot be used on:

	- non-created arrays

	- fixed arrays.




- To add a row at the end of a two-dimensional array, use [ArrayAddLine](../WDLang1/3075013.md) or [AddLine](../WDLang1/1000017349.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
