


## &lt;Spreadsheet&gt;.AddWorksheet (Function)

***In french: &lt;Tableur&gt;.AjouteFeuille***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a worksheet into a Spreadsheet control found in a window. 

Remark: To use this function, the Spreadsheet control must allow the management of several worksheets: 

- In the window editor: In the "Details" tab of the control description window, check "Allow multiple worksheets". 

- Through programming, use the [MultiWorksheet](../Proprietes/1000021639.md) property.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add a worksheet
nWorksheet is int 
nWorksheet = PSHEET_MySpreadsheet.AddWorksheet()
// Select the worksheet
PSHEET_MySpreadsheet.CurrentWorksheet = nWorksheet
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Spreadsheet control>.AddWorksheet([<Worksheet name>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Number of the worksheet created in the Spreadsheet control.

**`<Spreadsheet control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Spreadsheet control to be used.

**`<Worksheet name>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the worksheet to create. If this parameter is not specified, the worksheet is created with a default name ("WorksheetX"). This name: 

- appears in the tab used to select the worksheet (at the bottom of the Spreadsheet control). 

- is used to identify the worksheet in the formulas. For example, a formula that is using a cell of "Worksheet2" can be: "=SUM(Worksheet2!B4:D4)".






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The function fails and displays a WLanguage error in the following cases: 

	- The Spreadsheet control does not manage several worksheets. 

	- The name of the worksheet is invalid or it is already used by another worksheet. 




- This function can only be used on a Spreadsheet control found in a window.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
