


## &lt;Table&gt;.SetFocus (Function)

***In french: &lt;Table&gt;.DonneFocus***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Gives focus to a row found in a Table or TreeView Table control: the control switches to edit for the specified row and column.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add a row and switch to edit on "New" (COL_Name column)
let nRow = TABLE_MyTable.AddLine("New", 2)
TABLE_MyTable.SetFocus(nRow, COL_Nom)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Table control>.SetFocus([<Subscript> [, <Column>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the Table control is switched to edit,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control.

- a TreeView Table control.




**`<Subscript>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the row that will gain focus.
If this parameter is not specified, the focus is given to the current row. If there is no current row, **&lt;Table&gt;.SetFocus** has no effect and it returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.

**`<Column>: (Control name)`**

Name of the table column that will receive the focus.
If this parameter is not specified, the focus is given to the first valid column in the display order. 
If there is no valid column (or if the column name does not correspond to a column in the Table control), **&lt;Table&gt;.SetFocus** has no effect and returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If the Table control does not have focus, **&lt;Table&gt;.SetFocus** gives focus to the control. 

- If the Table control is grayed out or inactive, **&lt;Table&gt;.SetFocus** has no effect and returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.

- Control, row and column enter and leave events ARE not executed.

- If the Table control already is in edit mode, the number of the row or column in edit mode is modified.

- The rows displayed in the Table control may be moved in order for the row with new focus to be visible.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
