


## HTMLControlValue (Function)

***In french: HTMLValeurChamp***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to identify or modify a control in an HTML form contained in an HTML Display control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF HTMLControlValue(HTM_Display, "LOGIN") <> "" THEN
	HTMLControlValue(HTM_Display, "LOGIN", NetworkUser())
END
```

```wl
HTMLControlValue(HTM_Sites, "input4")
IF ErrorOccurred THEN
	Trace(ErrorInfo()) // ex: The <"input4"> control does not exist in the page.
	RETURN
ELSE
	HTMLControlValue(HTM_Sites, "input4", sControlValue)
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Identifying the value of a control in an HTML form

`<Result> = HTMLControlValue(<HTML Display control> , <Control in the page>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**



- Value of the control in the HTML Display control,

- Empty string ("") if an error occurs (e.g. if the control is not found in the page). In this case, the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<HTML Display control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the HTML Display control used. 

**`<Control in the page>: (Character string)`**

Name of the control contained in the HTML page displayed by the HTML Display control. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying the value of a control in an HTML form

`HTMLControlValue(<HTML Display control> , <Control in the page> , <Value>)`
---

**`<HTML Display control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the HTML Display control used. 

**`<Control in the page>: (Character string)`**

Name of the control contained in the HTML page displayed by the HTML Display control. If the control is not found, a non-fatal error will occur. 

**`<Value>: (Character string)`**

Control value to be modified. 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- **Important** : In order for this function to be run in the context of the HTML page displayed in the HTML Display control, the control should be accessible using JavaScript. There should be no access restrictions on this page.

- This function allows you to automate processes in the Web page displayed in an HTML Display control.

- The control is searched by its name and then by its ID. The name of the control (or its ID) can be known by editing the source code of the HTML page.

- Caution: HTML names are case-sensitive. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
