
## AttachPointAdd (Function)

***In french: PointDAttacheAjoute***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Defines an attach point for one of the two extremities of a Wire control.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
StartAttachPointID is int
EndAttachPointID is int

WIRE_Link_wire is Control

WIRE_Link_wire <- ControlCreate("Link", typWire)


WIRE_Link_wire.StartControl = IMG_Start
WIRE_Link_wire.EndControl = IMG_End

StartAttachPointID = AttachPointAdd(IMG_Start, 100, 25))
EndAttachPointID = AttachPointAdd(IMG_End, 0, 75))

WIRE_Link_wire.AttachPointStart = StartAttachPointID
WIRE_Link_wire.AttachPointEnd = EndAttachPointID
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Defining an attach point via its coordinates

`<Result> = AttachPointAdd(<Control used> , <X> , <Y>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of the attach point. This identifier can be used with the [AttachPointStart](../Proprietes/1000021907.md) and [AttachPointEnd](../Proprietes/1000021908.md) properties.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the start or end control of the Wire control. 

**`<X>: (Integer)`**

Horizontal position of attach point in % (see the Notes). The value of this parameter must be included between 1 and 100. 

**`<Y>: (Integer)`**

Vertical position of attach point in % (see the Notes). The value of this parameter must be included between 1 and 100.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining an attach point via a Point variable

`<Result> = AttachPointAdd(<Control used> , <Point>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of the attach point. This identifier can be used with the [AttachPointStart](../Proprietes/1000021907.md) and [AttachPointEnd](../Proprietes/1000021908.md) properties.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of the start or end control of the Wire control. 

**`<Point>: (Point variable)`**

Name of the Point variable corresponding to the attach point. The coordinates of the point are expressed in % (see the Notes).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Defining an attach point
<a name="defining_attach_point_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

To define an attach point, you must know: 

- The control linked to the attach point. This control corresponds to the start or end point of Wire control.

- The position of the attach point on one of the control sides.




The attach point can correspond to the start or end point of the Wire control.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Position of the attach point
<a name="position_the_attach_point_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

The position of the attach point is defined by 2 values representing in percentage the X and Y position (horizontal and vertical) in relation to the control.

For example: 

- if &lt;X&gt; is set to 0, the attach point starts from the left side of the control. 

- if &lt;X&gt; is set to 100, the attach point starts from the right side of the control.

- if &lt;Y&gt; is set to 0, the attach point starts from the top side of the control.

- if &lt;Y&gt; is set to 100, the attach point starts from the bottom side of the control.




Another example: To start the Wire control from the attach point found at the bottom and in the middle of the control: 

- &lt;X&gt; must be equal to 50, 

- &lt;Y&gt; must be equal to 100.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
