


## TableAddColumn (Function)

***In french: TableAjouteColonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds elements on the right of an Horizontal Table control.

**Caution**: This function cannot be used to add columns into a standard Table control (vertical Table control). To dynamically add columns into a standard Table control, use [ControlClone](../WDLang1/3025017.md).


<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = TableAddColumn(<Table control> [, <Element row 1> [... [, <Element row N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Index of the new column,

- -1 if an error occurred.




**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Horizontal Table control to be used.

If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Table control to which the current process belongs will be used.

**`<Element row 1>: (Type of associated row (optional))`**

Elements of column to add to the specified Table control. Each element corresponds to a row. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is added to the Table control. For a Table control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



**`<Element row N>: (Type of associated column (optional))`**

Elements of column to add to the specified Table control. Each element corresponds to a row. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is added to the Table control. For a Table control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of column elements
<a name="characteristics_column_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000068"></a>

- To specify no value for an element, use an empty string ("") or 0 (according to the type of the row).

- If an element corresponds to the calculation result, the numeric expression must be enclosed in brackets. For example:
	
	```wl
	TableAddColumn(TABLE_CalcTable, (53+29), (83-21))
	```




<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Position of added column
<a name="position_added_column_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

By default, the column is added at the end of the Table control.

- If the Table control is sorted by [TableSort](../WDLang1/3074035.md), the added column is positioned in the control according to the current sort.

- If the Table control is sorted by the user, the sort is ignored when the column is added. The column is added at the end of the control.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Limitations: Maximum number of displayed columns
<a name="limitations_maximum_number_displayed_columns_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

The maximum number of columns that can be displayed in a Table control is limited by the amount of available memory (theoretical maximum: 2 billion columns).

However, we do not recommend using Table controls with a large number of columns for performance reasons (time required to fill the control for example) and for user-friendliness.
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Table control based on a data file: Modifications in the linked data file
<a name="table_control_based_data_file_modifications_the_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000111"></a>

If the cascading input is enabled, the data file linked to the Table control is automatically modified when the user goes to the next column.

If the cascading input is not enabled, the data file linked to the Table control based on a data file is not modified. To write the added column into the linked data file,  [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md) must be used after **TableAddColumn**.

**Reminder**: The option "Cascading input (Add)" can be selected:

- When creating a Table control.

- In the "Details" tab of the control description.



<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Table control based on a data file: Adding several columns
<a name="table_control_based_data_file_adding_several_columns_ELTPARAGRAPHE000136"></a>

A virtual column is created each time **TableAddColumn** is called in a Table control based on a data file. The information will be saved in the data file during the call to [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md).

If **TableAddColumn** is successively called in the same process without being followed by [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md), only the FIRST call is effective (the following calls are ignored). Only one column is added to the Table control based on a data file.
<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>


### Adding records to a Table control based on a data file and Trigger
<a name="adding_records_table_control_based_data_file_and_trigger_ELTPARAGRAPHE000157"></a>

A trigger can be released when a record is added in a Table control based on a data file. For more details, see the documentation about [HDescribeTrigger](../WDLang4/3044074.md).
<a name="NOTE0_7"></a>


### Adding an image
<a name="adding_image_ELTPARAGRAPHE000169"></a>

To add an image into a Table control, specify the name and full path of image to add.

For example:

```wl
TableAddColumn(TABLE_MyTable, "C:\MyDocuments\MyImage.BMP")
```

**Remark**: The row must be an Image row otherwise the image will not be displayed properly.
<a name="NOTE0_8"></a>


### Table control in edit mode
<a name="table_control_edit_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000188"></a>

If **TableAddColumn** is called:

- ***In an event of the Table control***, the cursor is automatically positioned on the first row to edit in the added column.

- ***In an event that does not belong to the Table control (or in a custom process)***, [SetFocusAndReturnToUserInput](../WDLang1/1410088107.md) must be used to resume the input in the Table control.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
