
## Abandon (Function)

***In french: Abandonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Closes the current window by running the "Click" event of the CANCEL Button control.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click BTN_CANCEL
Abandon()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`Abandon()`
---



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

If the window contains a CANCEL Button control, the "Click" event of the Button control is run. Caution:

- If the "Click" event of the CANCEL Button control type closes the window, the window is closed.

- If the "Click" event of the CANCEL Button control type does not close the window, the window is not closed.




If the window contains no CANCEL Button control, the window is closed. No return value is returned.

If **Abandon** is called from a CANCEL Button control, the window is closed (even if the "Click" event of the Button control does not use [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md)). If a value was returned (by [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md) for example) in the "Click" event of the Button control, this value is not returned.

The call to **Abandon** is equivalent to Alt + F4.

**Remark**: if the window has several CANCEL Button controls, the behavior is not defined.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Reminder: The Button controls to use in a window
<a name="reminder_the_button_controls_use_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

- **If your window contains no edit control**, all the Button controls can be NORMAL buttons.

- **If your window contains at least one edit control**, the following types of Button controls must be used:

	- a VALIDATE Button control,

	- a CANCEL Button control,

	- a HELP Button control (if the controls have associated help windows), 

	- any other INTERRUPT Button controls







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
