
## RealToDateTime (Function)

***In french: RéelVersDateHeure***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Converts an 8-byte real to a date and time. This real corresponds to:

- the number of elapsed days since January 1, 1900 (compatible with Excel, starts with 1)

- the number of elapsed days since January 1, 1904 (compatible with Excel by checking the option "Use 1904 date system", starts with 0).




Remark: The option "Use 1904 date system" can be configured in the advanced options of Microsoft Excel. In Open Office, this option is available in the options of Open Office Calc ("Calculate" section, "Date" option). 






<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Displays "19000103060000000"
Info(RealToDateTime(3.25))
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = RealToDateTime(<Value> [, <From 1904>])`
---

**`<Result>: (DateTime variable or character string)`**

Value of the date and time. Can correspond to: 

- a DateTime variable. 

- a character string in YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCCC format (YYYY corresponds to the year, MM to the month, DD to the day, HH to hours, mm to minutes, SS to seconds and CCC to milliseconds). 

- an empty string ("") if an error occurs. 




**`<Value>: (Real)`**

Value to convert. 

**`<From 1904>: (Optional boolean)`**

Calculation mode: 

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the date is calculated from 1904. 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (default value) if the date is calculated from 1900. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Calculation mode
<a name="calculation_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

The integer part of the real gives the serial number that corresponds to the date in the result: 

- the count starts with 1 for 01/01/1900

- the count starts with 0 for 01/01/1904 if &lt;From 1904&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 


The decimal part gives the fraction of a day that corresponds to the time in the result (e.g. 0.25 corresponds to "060000000").

Caution: Any type conversion may cause a loss of precision.





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
