


## TimelineAddEvent(Function)

***In french: TimelineAjouteEvénement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds an event into a TimeLine control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Adds a 5-second event into a TimeLine control configured to the second
MyTrack is string
MyTitle is string
EvtStart is int
EvtEnd is int 

MyTrack = "Strings"
MyTitle = "Start"
EvtStart = 4
EvtEnd = 9

TimelineAddEvent(TL_Music, MyTrack, MyTitle, EvtStart, EvtEnd)
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
TimelineDeleteAll(TL_Robots)
Evt is EventTimeline

TimelineAddTrack(TL_Robots, "Robot 1")
Evt.Track = "Robot 1"
Evt.Title = "Start"
Evt.Start = 10
Evt.End = 150
Evt.BackgroundColor = LightGreen
TimelineAddEvent(TL_Robots, Evt)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Adding an element by specifying its characteristics

`<Result> = TimelineAddEvent(<TimeLine control> , <Track> , <Title> , <Start> [, <End> [, <Category>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Index of the new event, 

- -1 if an error occurred. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) is used to identify the error.




**Remark**: You can handle the new event directly with its index, using the following notation: &lt;TimeLine control&gt;[&lt;Index&gt;]. You can modify the properties of this element.

**`<TimeLine control>: (Control name)`**

Name of TimeLine control into which the event will be added.

**`<Track>: (Character string)`**

Name of track associated with the event. 

**`<Title>: (Character string)`**

Title of the event. 

**`<Start>: (Integer)`**

Start of event. This parameter is expressed in the unit chosen for the display resolution of TimeLine control. If the display resolution is the second, this parameter will correspond to the start time of the event expressed in seconds. 

Remark: The display resolution can be modified: 

- in the TimeLine control description window ("Details" tab). 

- with the [TimelineChangeMode](../WDLang1/1000020397.md) function. 




**`<End>: (Optional integer)`**

End of event. This parameter is expressed in the unit chosen for the display resolution of TimeLine control.
If this parameter is not specified, the default duration of event will be set to 1 unit.

**`<Category>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of category associated with the event. If this parameter is not specified, the event is associated with no category. The category is automatically created if it does not exist.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Adding an event into a TimeLine control using the EventTimeline type

`<Result> = TimelineAddEvent(<TimeLine control> , <Event>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Optional integer)`**



- Index of the new event, 

- -1 if an error occurred. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) is used to identify the error.




**Remark**: You can handle the new event directly with its index, using the following notation: &lt;Name of TimeLine control&gt;[&lt;Index&gt;]. You can modify the properties of this element. 

**`<TimeLine control>: (Control name)`**

Name of TimeLine control into which the event will be added. 

**`<Event>: (EventTimeline variable)`**

Name of the [EventTimeline](../WDLang1/1000020612.md) variable that describes the characteristics of the event to add.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
**TimelineAddEvent** is used to associate an event with a single track. To associate one event with several tracks, **TimelineAddEvent** must be called for each track.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280mdl.dll
