
## fMemWait (Function)

***In french: fMemAttend***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Waits for the end of process about the notifications of modification of a shared memory area. This process is performed by the other applications that use the memory area and that have asked to be notified. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Opens the shared memory area
ZoneNum is int
ZoneNum = fMemOpen("DialogZone", 1024, shareGlobal)

// Writes an information
fWriteLine(ZoneNum, "IDAPP=" + ExeInfo(exeName))

// Waits for the other applications to process the writing notification
fMemWait(ZoneNum)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = fMemWait(<Identifier of shared memory area> [, <Timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if all applications that received a notification have processed it,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the timeout was exceeded.




**`<Identifier of shared memory area>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of shared memory area to use, defined by [fMemOpen](../WDLang1/1000018917.md).

**`<Timeout>: (Optional integer)`**

Maximum timeout (in milliseconds). This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., '1s' or '10ms'). 


There is no timeout if this parameter is not specified.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Mechanism for automatic notification of modifications
<a name="mechanism_for_automatic_notification_modifications_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

A procedure for processing the notifications of modifications can be passed as parameter to [fMemOpen](../WDLang1/1000018917.md). If this procedure was specified, it will be automatically called whenever the content of the shared memory zone is modified.

By using **fMemWait**, an application that writes to a shared memory area can ensure that its change has been processed by other applications that use the memory area.

**Remark**: The mechanism for automatic notification only operates between WLanguage applications.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
