
## GetDefinition (Function)

***In french: RécupèreDéfinition***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Retrieves the definition of element type. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
PROCEDURE Proc(x)
// Retrieves the definition of x type
MyDefinition is Definition
MyDefinition = GetDefinition(x)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = GetDefinition(<Element>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Definition)`**

[Definition](../WDLang1/1000019540.md) variable. 

**`<Element>: (Variable or class member)`**

Element for which the definition will be retrieved. 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Retrieving the definition
<a name="retrieving_the_definition_ELTPARAGRAPHE000057"></a>

**GetDefinition** is used to retrieve the definition of content type (and not the definition of variable type).

Example: 

If two classes "DerivedClasse" and "BaseClass" derive from each other. If the instances of "DerivedClass" and "BaseClass" are handled by a "dynamic BaseClass" variable, **GetDefinition** returns the definition of real class of instance.


```wl
po is dynamic BaseClass
d is Definition

po = new BaseClass
d = GetDefinition(po)
Trace(d.Name)

po = new DerivedClass
d = GetDefinition(po)
Trace(d.Name)
```


If the type of the element is not supported, **GetDefinition** returns a Null definition with a non-fatal error ("Invalid definition"). 

If the element is not allocated, **GetDefinition** returns a Null definition with a non-fatal error ("Element not allocated").

The error cases can be processed:

- by comparing the description to Null.

- by checking the value of the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable.




The following types of elements are supported: 

- native variables and members

- advanced variables and members

- variables and members of type class

- variables and members of type structure




The following types of elements are not supported:

- variables and members of .NET type

- windows, reports, pages, controls, etc.

- HFSQL files, queries, items, etc.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Limits
<a name="limits_ELTPARAGRAPHE000104"></a>

- In a project, you cannot retrieve the definition of an instance coming from: 

	- an external component.

	- an internal component.




- In an external component, you cannot retrieve the definition of an instance coming from the host project.










<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
