


## &lt;ParallelTask variable&gt;.Wait (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable TâcheParallèle&gt;.Attend***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Waits for the end of execution of a parallel task.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Triggers the execution of a task and waits for the task to be ended
t is ParallelTask = ParallelTaskExecute(Proc)
t.Wait()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <Task>.Wait([<Maximum duration>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the task is ended properly. 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the task is not ended properly. For example:

	- the maximum task duration has been reached,

	- the task was canceled.







**`<Task>: (ParallelTask variable)`**

Name of the [ParallelTask](../WDLang1/1000021220.md) variable to be used.

**`<Maximum duration>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Maximum duration for running the task, expressed in hundredths of a second.

- If this parameter is specified, **&lt;ParallelTask variable&gt;.Wait** locks the application until the task execution is ended or until the maximum duration is reached. 

- If this parameter is not specified, **&lt;ParallelTask variable&gt;.Wait** locks the application until the task execution is ended.


This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the indication of duration in clear ('1 s' or '10 ms' for example). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
If **&lt;ParallelTask variable&gt;.Wait** is called from the main thread, the task to be waited for must not be executed in the main thread. Otherwise, a lock will occur. Indeed, the main thread cannot wait for the end of the task and run it at the same time. 

A WLanguage error signals the problem before the lock occurs.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
