


## Telemetry: Viewing data
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000199"></a>
To see the results of telemetry data for your applications, WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose a telemetry editor. 

**To display the telemetry editor**: 

1. On the "Project" tab, in the "Audit and performance" group, click "Telemetry". 

2. Specify the parameters for connecting to the telemetry server: 

	- Server: server address, username and password. 
			Remark: The username and password have been specified when installing the telemetry server. 

	- CLOUD platform: platform name, user name and password.




3. Check the connection if necessary. 

4. Validate. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Telemetry editor
<a name="telemetry_editor_ELTTEXTE000223"></a>


### General interface
<a name="general_interface_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

The telemetry editor is used to display statistics about all the applications that send their data to the same telemetry server. 

Several tabs are used to group the statistics for each application. Most of the statistics can be viewed: 

- for each application (or for each application platform if the project contains several deployed platforms)

- no matter whether the project is opened in the editor or not (a message is displayed if the project must be opened in order to view some data). 




The following tabs can be viewed: 

- **Summary**: summary regarding the use of the application for a given period: number of users, most used elements, less used elements, ....

- **Windows**: summary regarding the use of windows for a given period: most used elements, less used elements, frequently used processes, longest processes, ....

- **Reports/Queries**: summary regarding the use of reports and queries for a given period: most used elements, less used elements, frequently used processes, longest processes, ....

- **Users**: statistics regarding the number of application users. 

- **PC device**: statistics regarding the device on which the application is deployed. This tab affects the WINDEV applications deployed on PC.  

- **Mobile device**: statistics regarding the mobile device on which the application is deployed. This tab affects the WINDEV Mobile applications deployed on mobile.  

- **Anomalies**: statistics regarding the anomalies that occurred when using the application (most common WLanguage errors, ...). 

- tabs corresponding to the [custom telemetry](../WDLang1/1410086591.md).




**Remark**: The elements displayed in these different tabs can be re-organized or hidden according to your requirements. Simply: 

- Right-click to open the context menu. 

- Select "Modification mode". 

- You have the ability to hide areas, to move them, ...

- To go back to "Normal" mode, select "Modification mode" again in the popup menu. 





### Available options if the corresponding project is opened in the editor of WINDEV or WINDEV Mobile 
<a name="available_options_the_corresponding_project_opened_the_editor_windev_windev_mobile_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

**When the project corresponding to the telemetry is opened in the editor of WINDEV or WINDEV Mobile**, you have the ability to directly see the telemetry of a project element. For example, the popup menu of the most used windows is used to see the telemetry of the window ("See the telemetry" option). 

When the telemetry on an element is displayed, you have the ability to run a GO of this window in telemetry mode: on the "Telemetry" tab, in the "General" group, click "GO". 

The "Telemetry GO" is used to start the element by displaying the use statistics on the window via colored areas. You have the ability to view: 

- the most frequently used controls. A slider is used to define the level regarding the number of uses. 

- the unused controls, 

- the WLanguage errors, 

- the average execution time of processes. 




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Options specific to the telemetry editor
<a name="options_specific_the_telemetry_editor_ELTTEXTE000253"></a>


### Connection
<a name="connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000103"></a>

The "Connection" option ("Telemetry" tab, "General" group) is used to change the current connection. This allows you to change the telemetry server viewed. All you have to do is specify the characteristics of the new telemetry server. 


### Parameters
<a name="parameters_ELTPARAGRAPHE000116"></a>

The "Parameters" option ("Telemetry" tab, "General" group) is used to define global settings for all the applications that use the current telemetry server. 

This setting affects: 

- **The storate of aggregated data**: The data is received by the server on a regular basis and it is aggregated every two hours in order to propose full statistics. 
	Daily, weekly, monthly and yearly statistics are performed. You have the ability to specify the storage duration of data: 

	- for the daily data: This data is stored during 1 year by default. 

	- for the weekly and monthly data. This data is stored during 3 years by default. 




- **The HFSQL server used to store the data**: This information corresponds to the HFSQL server used to store the telemetry database. If this parameter is modified, the database will be modified for all the applications that use the telemetry on this server. 

- **The modification of the telemetry password**. The username and password have been specified when installing the telemetry server. This information can be modified. 
	Caution: The modification of this information has no effect on the deployed applications. The modification of this information triggers the modification of this information in the applications that use this telemetry server during their next update: the new login and password will be requested when creating the executable. 





### Statistics of an element
<a name="statistics_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000142"></a>

The "Statistics of an element" option ("Telemetry" tab, "General" group) is used to display the statistics of an element of the current project. Simply select the desired element.  


