


## OpenAsynchronous (Function)

***In french: OuvreAsynchrone***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Opens a window whose result will be retrieved via a WLanguage procedure ("callback"). 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Open asynchronously without passing parameters 
OpenAsynchronous(WIN_DateSelect, (), CloseDateSelect)
INTERNAL PROCEDURE CloseDateSelect(SelectedDate)
	EDT_DATE = SelectedDate
END
```

```wl
// Open asynchronously without passing parameters and lambda
OpenAsynchronous(WIN_DateSelect, (), (SelectedDate) => {EDT_DATE = SelectedDate})
```

```wl
// Open asynchronously with 2 parameters
OpenAsynchronous(WIN_DateSelect, (DateSys(), "Select a date"), CloseDateSelect)
INTERNAL PROCEDURE CloseDateSelect(SelectedDate)
	EDT_DATE = SelectedDate
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`OpenAsynchronous(<Window> [, <Parameters>] [, <Optional WLanguage procedure>])`
---

**`<Window>: (Window name)`**

Name of the window to be opened.

**`<Parameters>: (Optional character string)`**

List of parameters to be passed to the window. This list of parameters has the following format: 

```txt
(<Parameter 1>, ..., <Parameter N>)
```

 where:

- &lt;Parameter 1&gt;: First parameter that will be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by value and is considered a variable global to the window.
	This parameter cannot be a variable of type array (arrays can only be passed by reference).

- &lt;Parameter N&gt;: Nth parameter that must be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by value and is considered a variable global to the window.
	This parameter cannot be a variable of type array (arrays can only be passed by reference).




**`<Optional WLanguage procedure>: (Optional procedure name or lambda procedure)`**

Name of the WLanguage procedure ("callback") called after the window is closed. For more details on this procedure, see [Parameters of the procedure used by OpenAsynchronous](../WDLang1/1410087805.md). 

This WLanguage procedure can correspond to: 

- a name of a global procedure,

- a name of an internal procedure,

- a lambda procedure. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- **OpenAsynchronous** opens the window in modal and asynchronous mode: 

	- code execution continues without waiting for the window to be closed,

	- the WLanguage procedure will be called when the window is closed. 

	- the user cannot click the parent window of the calling window. 




- A window opened with **OpenAsynchronous** will be automatically closed if the calling window is closed. However, the "Close a child window" event of the calling window will not be executed.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
