


## KanbanDisplay (Function)

***In french: KanbanAffiche***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Refreshes a Kanban control or a card in the Kanban control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
HAdd(Task)
KanbanDisplay(KANBAN_Tasks)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`KanbanDisplay(<Kanban control> [, <Card>])`
---

**`<Kanban control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Kanban control to be refreshed. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control to which the current event belongs is refreshed.

**`<Card>: (Optional kbCard variable)`**

Name of the [kbCard](../WDLang1/1410089167.md) variable that corresponds to the card to be refreshed. If this parameter is not specified, the whole Kanban control is refreshed.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Case 1: Only the Kanban control is specified
<a name="case_1_only_the_kanban_control_specified_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

- If the Kanban control is bound to a data source (data file or WLanguage array), the control is refreshed using the data from that source. 

- If the Kanban control is handled programmatically, the "Request for refreshing the display" events of each internal window (or page) are re-executed. 



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Case 2: The Kanban control and the card are specified
<a name="case_2_the_kanban_control_and_the_card_are_specified_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

- If the card is not in a Kanban list, the function has no effect. 

- If the Kanban control is bound to a data source (data file or WLanguage array), the card is refreshed using the data from that source. 

- If the control is handled programmatically, the "Request for refreshing the display" event of the internal window (or page) is re-executed.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
