
## Ping (Function)

***In french: Ping***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Checks whether a network address can be reached by using the ICMP protocol (similar to the PING network utility).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF Ping("www.mysite.com") = True THEN
	Info("The server is available. You can see the News")
ELSE
	Info("Server temporarily unavailable")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = Ping(<Address> [, <Maximum duration>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the sought address is "visible" on the network, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Address>: (Character string)`**

Address for which the network connection must be checked. This IP address can have the following format:

- Address in XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX format (125.5.110.100 for example). This syntax is recommended.

- DNS address of the computer (www.windev.com for instance).

- Address returned by [NetIPAddress](../WDLang3/3056023.md)




**`<Maximum duration>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Maximum duration allowed to find the address (in milliseconds). This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 


This duration is set to 1000 by default.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The **Ping** function is essentially a network diagnostic tool. **It does not guarantee that**:

- the computer will respond on a given port (to do so, use [SocketConnect](../WDLang3/3070016.md)).

- the computer is broken. Indeed, if the ping service is stopped on the computer, this computer will stop responding while it is still operating properly.

- the maximum duration will be used to interrupt the function if a network exchange with the server is in progress. For example, the server at the specified address could be contacted and the exchange has already started, but there was no response within the given time. However, if the address cannot be resolved, **Ping** returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> immediately and does not wait until the maximum duration is elapsed. You can get more details on the error with [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280com.dll
