
## SendMessage (Function)

***In french: SendMessage***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Sends a Windows message to a control or to a window. This message is sent directly: the current process is stopped as long as the message is not processed (locking function). [PostMessage](../WDLang1/3015001.md) is used to send a message without locking the application.

**Remark**: This function performs a call to the Windows API named *SendMessage*. It is used to perform low-level tasks on controls and windows. To find out the meaning of each message (and parameters), you must refer to the Windows API (WIN32).

**Caution**: The inappropriate use of this function can lead to very serious problems in your application and/or to malfunctions in the graphic interface.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Copy the content of an edit control into the clipboard
SendMessage(Handle(EDT_EDIT1), WM_COPY, 0, 0)
```


<a name="Example2"></a>





```wl
// Trigger the opening of a context menu on a button
SendMessage(Handle(BTN_BUTTON1), WM_CONTEXTMENU, Handle(BTN_BUTTON1), -1)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = SendMessage(<hWnd> , <Windows message> , <wParam> , <lParam>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

The meaning of this parameter depends on the message sent.

**`<hWnd>: (Integer)`**

Handle of the control or window to which the message must be sent. This control or this window can be objects that do not belong to a WINDEV application. The handle of a control or window can be calculated by [Handle](../WDLang1/3015005.md) (for the WINDEV objects) or by [SysWinHandle](../WDLang1/3073007.md).

**`<Windows message>: (Integer or character string)`**

Number or name of the Windows message to send. If a character string is used, **RegisterWindowsMessage** is automatically called to get the corresponding message number. 
If this parameter corresponds to a character string, this string is case sensitive.

**`<wParam>: (Integer)`**

Parameter whose use depends on the type of message sent.

**`<lParam>: (Integer)`**

Parameter whose use depends on the type of message sent.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Constants defining the messages
<a name="constants_defining_the_messages_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>The constants that define the possible messages are defined in the "WINCONST.WL" file available in the WINDEV directory (Personal\\External subdirectory). To use this file in your applications, use the following code:


```wl
EXTERN "WINCONST.wl"   // Defines the WM_MOUSEMOVE constant
SendMessage(Handle(EDT_EDIT1), WM_MOUSEMOVE, 0, 0)
```


<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
