


## DateToWeekNumber (Function)

***In french: DateVersNuméroDeSemaine***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the week number within the year that corresponds to the specified date.








<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
DateToWeekNumber("20011225") // Returns 52

MyDate is Date = Today()
DateToWeekNumber(MyDate)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = DateToWeekNumber(<Date>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Week number (between 0 and 53) that corresponds to the specified date.

**`<Date>: (Character string, Date or DateTime variable)`**

Date to use. This date can correspond to: 

- a character string in YYYYMMDD format (YYYY corresponds to the year, MM to the month and DD to the day).  

- a character string in YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCC format (YYYY corresponds to the year, MM to the month, DD to the day, HH to hours, mm to minutes, SS to seconds and CC to hundredths of a second (use CCC for thousandths of a second)). In this case, only the date is taken into account.

- a Date variable. 

- a DateTime variable. In this case, only the date is taken into account.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Week characteristics
<a name="week_characteristics_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

A week starts on a Monday and ends on a Sunday.

For the first days of the year:

- If the first day of the year is a Friday, Saturday or Sunday, the week number will be 0. Week #1 will correspond to the first Monday of the year.

- If the first day of the year is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, the week number will be 1.

- The days between Sunday of the 52nd week and the 1st of January are in week 53.




Remark: To get a week number corresponding to the ISO 8601 standard, use [WeekNumber](../WDLang1/3027027.md).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Special case
<a name="special_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000135"></a>

The date storage format allows you to store dates from 01/01/0001 to 12/31/9999.

[WLanguage functions](../WDLang1/3027029.md) and [WLanguage properties](../Proprietes/2514010.md) make accurate calculations on dates from January 1st, 1583.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280std.dll
