
## ExplorerRetrieve (Function)

***In french: ExplorerRécupère***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Retrieves the number and the name of the files "dropped" from the explorer.

**Remark**: To get information from the explorer, the dialog must have been initialized by [ExplorerAccept](../WDLang1/3030015.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1000003030009&name=explorerretrieve_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
Nb = ExplorerRetrieve(_eve.wparam)
// Retrieve all the files
FOR i = 1 TO Nb
	Trace(ExplorerRetrieve(_eve.wparam, i))
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Retrieving the number of dropped files

`<Result> = ExplorerRetrieve(<Message>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Number of selected files.

**`<Message>: (System integer)`**

First parameter of the WM_DROPFILES message (returned by the explorer to the WINDEV window or control), which means _EVE.wParam.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Retrieving the name of the dropped files one by one

`<Result> = ExplorerRetrieve(<Message> , <Number>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Name and path of the dropped file.

**`<Message>: (System integer)`**

First parameter of the WM_DROPFILES message (returned by the explorer to the WINDEV window or control), which means _EVE.wParam.

**`<Number>: (Integer)`**

Index of file whose name must be retrieved.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
When a "Drag and Drop" is performed between the explorer and a WINDEV window (or control), the explorer sends the WM_DROPFILES message to the relevant target. The first parameter of this message (_EVE.wParam) used in **ExplorerRetrieve** returns the content of the "Drag and Drop" operation (number and name of the selected files).

Remarks:

- The number and the name of the files selected in the explorer cannot be retrieved if no "Drag and Drop" operation is performed between the explorer and a WINDEV window.

- The WM_DROPFILES constant is defined in the Winconst.wl file supplied in the "Personal\\External" subdirectory and it is set to 0x233.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
