
## fGlobalDirCommon (Function)

***In french: fRepGlobalCommun***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns a directory path for the global data of current application (data shared between several applications), regardless of the current user. This directory is automatically created if it does not exist.

Remarks: 

- This directory can be used in Windows XP, Vista, ... 

- From Windows 7, this directory corresponds to: "C:\\ProgramData"





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Create a configuration file
fCreate(CompleteDir(fGlobalDirCommon()) + "MyApp.ini")
// From Windows 7, the file will be created in: 
// C:\ProgramData
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = fGlobalDirCommon()`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Path of directory to use for the data common to all the application users (data shared between several applications).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Programming standard in Windows XP, Vista and later
<a name="programming_standard_windows_vista_and_later_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

To increase computer security against worms and viruses, Windows Vista (and later versions) has implemented the [UAC mechanism](../Editeurs/2025014.md) (User Account Control).

By default, this mechanism considers that all the users (including the administrators) are standard users with reduced rights. To run an application that requires additional rights, the UAC mechanism asks for confirmation.

When you create your applications, we advise you to comply with the programming standard of Windows to give the ability to any user (without specific rights) to use your application. Therefore:

- **If an application must create or modify local HFSQL data files or configuration files (.INI, .XML)**, these files must be found in the directory corresponding to the application.

	- If these files are specific to the current user, they must be stored in the directory returned by [fDataDirUser](../WDLang1/3036071.md).

	- If these files are common to all users of the computer, they must be stored in the directory returned by [fDataDirCommon](../WDLang1/3036070.md).




- **If several applications must create or modify the same HFSQL data files or configuration files (.INI, .XML)**, these files must be found in the common directory of applications

	- If these files are specific to the current user, they must be stored in the directory returned by [fGlobalDirUser](../WDLang1/3036073.md).

	- If these files are common to all users of the computer, they must be stored in the directory returned by **fGlobalDirCommon**.







Summary table: 


|   |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- |
|   | 1 application | Several applications |
| 1 user | [fDataDirUser](../WDLang1/3036071.md) | [fGlobalDirUser](../WDLang1/3036073.md) |
| Several users | [fDataDirCommon](../WDLang1/3036070.md) | **fGlobalDirCommon** |


Remarks:

- These functions are recommended for the multi-user applications installed on a single computer or TSE.

- If the domain or the Active Directory allows the use of a mobile profile, the user details are automatically copied when changing computer.




To help you create applications while complying with the programming standard, specific options are proposed by WINDEV when running the application test. For more details, see [Configuring the test mode of project](../Editeurs/2019017.md).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Equivalence
<a name="equivalence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000108"></a>

**fGlobalDirCommon** is equivalent to using [SysDir](../WDLang1/3073026.md) with the *srCommonAppData* constant.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
