


## fLongName (Function)

***In french: fNomLong***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the long name of a file or directory.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1000003036033&name=flongname_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
// Retrieve the long name of a file
ResLongName = fLongName("C:\MyDir~1\Account~1.doc")
// fLongName returns "Status report for March 2001.doc"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = fLongName(<File path> [, <Options>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**



- Long name of the file or directory. Only the long name of the file or directory is returned. 

- Empty string ("") if an error occurred (file or directory not found). To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<File path>: (Character string)`**

Name and full (or relative) path of the file or directory (up to 260 characters). A UNC path can be used.

**`<Options>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Used to specify the format of function result. By default, **fLongName** returns a character string in Ansi format. 


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *fPathUNICODE* | &lt;Result&gt; will be a Unicode string. |


**Remark**: The result of **fLongName** is always an ANSI character string, the *fPathUNICODE* constant is only used to store the result in a Unicode character string.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Long names
<a name="long_names_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

**fLongName** returns:

- *the long name of the file or directory* if &lt;File path&gt; is expressed in short names (name with 8 characters or less, containing a "~").

- *the name of the specified file* if the name of the file in &lt;File path&gt; is:

	- expressed as long name (name exceeding 8 characters), 

	- 8 characters long (or less) and does not contain a tilde ("~").




- *the name of the specified directory* if the name of the directory in &lt;File path&gt; is:

	- expressed as long name (name exceeding 8 characters), 

	- 8 characters long (or less) and does not contain a tilde ("~").







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280std.dll
