


## ListSelectPlus (Function)

***In french: ListeSelectPlus***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Selects one or more elements in a List Box, ListView or Combo Box control.

The element is selected but it is not displayed if it is not visible. To make the selected element visible, use [ListPosition](../WDLang1/3049015.md). 

**Reminder**: The selected element corresponds to the current element onto which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **ListSelectPlus** can be used on:

- List Box controls based on a data file or populated programmatically,

- single-selection or multi-selection List Box controls.











<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Select the element at index 7 in "LIST_CustomerList"
ListSelectPlus(LIST_CustomerList, 7)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`ListSelectPlus(<List Box control> [, <Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<List Box control>: (Control name)`**

Name of List Box (or Combo Box) control to use.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the element specified by its index is selected in the List Box control (or Combo Box) to which the current event belongs.



**`<Index 1>: (Optional integers)`**

Index of the first element to be selected. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are selected. 
**ListSelectPlus** has no effect if these parameters correspond to elements that are already selected.



**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the Nth element to be selected. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are selected. 
**ListSelectPlus** has no effect if these parameters correspond to elements that are already selected.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Last element
<a name="last_element_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>To position on the last element of List Box control, use the following syntax:

```txt
ListSelectPlus(<List Box control>, <List Box control>.Count)
```
or


```txt
<List Box control> = <List Box control>.Count
```
or


```txt
<List Box control> = ListCount(<List Box control>)
```

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Equivalence
<a name="equivalence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000147"></a>

For a single-selection List Box control without calling [gStoredValue](../WDLang1/1410088363.md), the two following syntaxes are equivalent:

```txt
ListSelectPlus(<List Box control>, <Index>)
```


and


```txt
<List Box control> = <Index>
```

<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000169"></a>

- To select an element in a Table control, use [TableSelectPlus](../WDLang1/3074031.md).

- **ListSelectPlus** can be used on a "Combo Box" table column.

- [ListSelectMinus](../WDLang1/3049008.md) allows you to deselect the elements of a List Box or Combo Box control.



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
