


## ListSelectMinus (Function)

***In french: ListeSelectMoins***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deselects an element in a List Box, ListView or Combo Box control.

**Reminder**: The selected element corresponds to the current element onto which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **ListSelectMinus** can be used on:

- List Box controls based on a data file or populated programmatically,

- single-selection or multi-selection List Box controls.













<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Deselect the element at index 7 from "LIST_CustomerList"
ListSelectMinus(LIST_CustomerList, 7)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`ListSelectMinus(<List Box control> [, <Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<List Box control>: (Control name)`**

Name of List Box (or Combo Box) control to use. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the element specified by its index is deselected in the List Box control (or Combo Box) to which the current event belongs.



**`<Index 1>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the first element to deselect. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are deselected. 
**ListSelectMinus** has no effect if these indices correspond to elements that are not selected.



**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the Nth element to deselect. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are deselected. 
**ListSelectMinus** has no effect if these indices correspond to elements that are not selected.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Combo Box control
<a name="combo_box_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000120"></a>

If **ListSelectMinus** is used with a Combo Box control:

- no element of Combo Box control is displayed,

- if the Combo Box control is editable, the edit control is cleared.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000134"></a>

- To deselect an element from a Table control, use [TableSelectMinus](../WDLang1/3074029.md).

- **ListSelectMinus** can be used on a "Combo Box" table column.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
