
## MatReadColumn (Function)

***In french: MatLitColonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Reads the value of all the elements found in a matrix column.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1000003050070&name=matreadcolumn_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
// Read the elements found in column 5
ResReadColumn = MatReadColumn("MyMatrix", 5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = MatReadColumn(<Matrix> , <Column to read> [, <Total element size> [, <Number of decimals> [, <Element format>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Value of all the elements found in the specified column, in the following format:

```txt
<Value of element 1> + TAB + <Value of element 2> + TAB + ... 
+ TAB + <Value of element N>
```


**`<Matrix>: (Character string)`**

Name of the matrix to be read, defined with [MatCreate](../WDLang1/3050058.md).

**`<Column to read>: (Integer)`**

Number of the column to read.

**`<Total element size>: (Optional integer)`**

Total size of an element to read. This size includes the sign, the thousand separator, the decimal point, the exponent, the integer parts and the decimal parts of the element value.

- If the element has more than &lt;Total element size&gt; digits, &lt;Total element size&gt; is increased.

- If the element has less than &lt;Total element size&gt; digits, &lt;Result&gt; is filled with spaces.

- If &lt;Total element size&gt; is not specified, the value of the element read will have the size of its significant part.

- &lt;Total element size&gt; must not exceed 100.

- If &lt;Total element size&gt; is set to 0, the value of the element will have the size of its significant part.




**`<Number of decimals>: (Optional integer)`**

Number of decimals to read. This parameter always starts with a dot ("."). The last decimal will be rounded. This parameter only affects the float notations ("f") and the exponential notations ("e" and "E"). &lt;Total element size&gt; is ignored if &lt;Number of decimals&gt; is greater than &lt;Total element size&gt;.

| *&lt;Number of decimals&gt;* | *"d" type (integer)* | *"e" or "E" type (exponential notation) and "f" type (float notation)* |
| --- | --- | --- |
| .0 | - | 0 |
| .N | - | N (if N is greater than the number of decimals, the decimal part will be filled with zeros) |
| (not specified) | - | 6 |



**`<Element format>: (Optional character)`**

Format for representing an element:

- d: the value of the element is expressed as a signed integer. The digits found after the decimal point are truncated and &lt;Number of decimals&gt; is ignored.

- e or E: the value of the element is expressed as an exponential notation with 1 digit before the decimal point, &lt;Number of decimals&gt; digits after the decimal point and at least 2 digits in the exponent.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Matrix existence
<a name="matrix_existence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000121"></a>

The matrix existence is not checked. To check the matrix existence, use [MatExist](../WDLang1/3050076.md).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Managing errors
<a name="managing_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000132"></a>

**Caution**: **MatReadColumn** returns no error code. To find out whether errors have been generated when reading the column elements, use [MatError](../WDLang1/3050044.md). To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### Size of &lt;Result&gt;
<a name="size_ELTPARAGRAPHE000148"></a>

**Caution**: The size of the character string returned in &lt;Result&gt; cannot exceed 260 characters. If the matrix column contains more characters, the string found in &lt;Result&gt; will only contain the first 260 characters.
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>




### Extracting an element value from &lt;Result&gt;
<a name="extracting_element_value_from_ELTPARAGRAPHE000156"></a>

To extract one or more element values from &lt;Result&gt;, use [ExtractString](../WDLang1/3024017.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280mat.dll
