
## MCIPlay (Function)

***In french: MCIJoue***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Plays a media file. This file can be played even if it is not opened beforehand ([MCIOpen](../WDLang1/3051017.md)).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MCIOpen("Sound.wav", "MySound")
...
MCIPlay("MySound")
...
MCIClose("MySound")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = MCIPlay(<Media file or alias> [, <Start Position> [, <End position> [, <Parameters> [, <Name of the message window>]]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the file was played,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get the error number, use [MCIErr](../WDLang1/3051011.md). 
	To get more details on the error, use [MCIMsgErr](../WDLang1/3051021.md) or [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.
	The status report of the command is returned by [MCIRetrieve](../WDLang1/3051022.md).




**`<Media file or alias>: (Character string)`**

Name of media file to play (AVI, MP3, ...) or alias defined when opening the file ([MCIOpen](../WDLang1/3051017.md)).

**`<Start Position>: (Optional character string)`**

Position in the file to play. The file will be played from this position. This position must be expressed in the format specified by [MCIPositionFormat](../WDLang1/3051004.md).

**`<End position>: (Optional character string)`**

Final position in the file to play. The file will be played up to this position. This position must be expressed in the format specified by [MCIPositionFormat](../WDLang1/3051004.md).

**`<Parameters>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional parameters if necessary. These parameters can be known by checking the documentation of the Windows MCI function "Play".
The *MciWait* constant can be added to this string. This constant is used to indicate that the program must wait for the end of the MCI command to run the rest of application. 

**`<Name of the message window>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the window used to intercept and manage the different messages sent by MMSYSTEM.DLL. These messages are in MM_xxxxxx format and can be retrieved with [Event](../WDLang1/3015011.md). You can for example get messages regarding the management of the CD ROM or Joystick.  



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
