
## MCISize (Function)

***In french: MCITaille***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns or changes the size of a media file (previously opened with [MCIOpen](../WDLang1/3051017.md)). The unit used is the one specified by [MCIPositionFormat](../WDLang1/3051004.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MCIOpen("Sound.wav", "MySound")
MCIFormatPosition("MySound", MciFormatMS)
...
MCIPlay("MySound")
...
Res_Size = MCISize("MySound")
...
MCIClose("MySound")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = MCISize(<Media file or alias> [, <Parameters> [, <Name of the message window>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**



- Size of the file expressed in the format specified by [MCIPositionFormat](../WDLang1/3051004.md). 

- Empty string if an error occurred. To get the error number, use [MCIErr](../WDLang1/3051011.md). To get more details on the error, use [MCIMsgErr](../WDLang1/3051021.md) or [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.
	The status report of the command is returned by [MCIRetrieve](../WDLang1/3051022.md).




**`<Media file or alias>: (Character string)`**

Name of the media file to be used (AVI, MP3, etc.) or alias defined when opening the file ([MCIOpen](../WDLang1/3051017.md)).

**`<Parameters>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional parameters if necessary. These parameters can be known by checking the documentation of the Windows MCI function named "status".
The *MciWait* constant can be added to this string. This constant is used to indicate that the program must wait for the end of the MCI command to run the rest of application. 

**`<Name of the message window>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the window used to intercept and manage the different messages sent by MMSYSTEM.DLL. These messages are in MM_xxxxxx format and can be retrieved with [Event](../WDLang1/3015011.md). You can for example get messages regarding the management of the CD ROM or Joystick.  



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
