


## 5. Deploying a dynamic site (Session or AWP) in practice
			



| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087485.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087147.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
When developing a dynamic site (in Session or AWP), one of the important phases consists of deploying this site on a Web server (at a hosting company or in Intranet)

Several deployment methods are available:

- **deployment to PCSCloud**: Paid turnkey solution. For more details, see [http://www.pcscloud.net](http://www.pcscloud.net).

- **remote deployment (via HTTP) on a WEBDEV Application Server or WEBDEV Cluster**: recommended method when the server is not directly accessible.
	Remark: for backward compatibility, it is also possible to perform a remote deployment via FTP.

- **deployment by package**: recommended method when the server is not directly accessible and when its characteristics are unknown.

- **deployment by physical media**: recommended method when the server is easily accessible.

- **deployment via a Docker image**.




**Remarks**:

- For each Web server that hosts WEBDEV sites, the hosting company must own a license for the WEBDEV Application Server.

- To create the setup of a site, go to the "Project" tab, "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site".




To deploy a static site, see [Deploying a static site or a PHP site](../Concepts_WB/1410087483.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Generating a library
<a name="generating_library_ELTTEXTE000616"></a>
Before performing a setup, all the objects found in your dynamic site (in Session or AWP mode) must be included in a library.. A library is a file that contains all the objects created during development (database description, page description, compiled source code, etc.).. The HTML pages and the images are not included in the library. The library is automatically implemented when creating the setup procedure. 

Once the library is created, the wizard for setup creation starts. You can choose to perform:

- **deployment to PC SOFT Cloud**:
	PC SOFT offers a hosting platform based on the Cloud Computing model: you deploy without worrying about hardware constraints and you are billed based on your applications' real usage.
	A PC SOFT Cloud account is required to perform this type of setup. The wizard prompts you to create this [Cloud](https://pcscloud.net/UK/cloud_development.awp) account if necessary.

- **remote deployment (via HTTP or FTP) on a WEBDEV Application Server or WEBDEV Cluster**:
	Before performing a remote setup, the hosting company must have configured the web server (and the WEBDEV Cluster if necessary) and sent the parameters needed to install the site. 

- **a remote deployment package**:
	A deployment package is an executable containing all the elements required to deploy a WEBDEV site. This package can then be executed from any computer to install the website on a remote WEBDEV Application Server or a WEBDEV Cluster (via HTTP or FTP).
	To create this type of setup, there is no need to know the characteristics of the WEBDEV accounts on the Web server.

- **a setup by physical media**:
	The wizard allows you to create a setup program for your site. Then, this program will be supplied to the hosting company and it will be used to install your WEBDEV site on the Web server. To install your WEBDEV site, the hosting company must:

	1. Install the WEBDEV Application Server on the Web server (if necessary).

	2. Install your WEBDEV site by running the **I*nstall.exe*** executable of your setup.


 **Remark**: It is also possible to create a setup as stand-alone physical media, containing the setup of a WEBDEV Application Server limited to 10 connections. This solution is ideal for proof-of-concepts presented on a laptop.

- **a setup via a Docker image**.
	This option allows you to create a Docker recipe including the site, the WEBDEV Application Server and the web server. 

- **a setup via PC SOFT's test hosting service**:
	PC SOFT proposes to host your test sites. The setup is easily performed, directly from the environment. Once the site is developed, you can test it directly.
	A PC SOFT developer account is required to perform this type of setup. The wizard proposes to create this account if necessary.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Remote deployment (via HTTP or FTP)
<a name="remote_deployment_via_http_ftp_ELTTEXTE000640"></a>


### Steps
<a name="steps_ELTPARAGRAPHE000103"></a>

The deployment steps are as follows:

1. Installing the WEBDEV Application Server at the hosting company (optional step). For more details, see the documentation about the WEBDEV Application Server.

2. Creation of a deployment account by the hosting company.
	Remark: If the installation is done via FTP (optional), an FTP account is created (in the FTP server).

3. The hosting company provides the names and associated passwords as well as the name (IP address) of the server.

4. Creating the remote setup from the editor: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site". In the wizard, select "Deploy to a remote WEBDEV Application Server or to a WEBDEV Cluster". The necessary files are copied into the transfer directory.

5. On-lining the WEBDEV site.




Caution: By default, a WEBDEV site is deployed remotely by HTTP. 
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Creating the setup
<a name="creating_the_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000134"></a>

In the wizard, define:

1. **The information regarding the remote computer**. This information must be supplied by the hosting company:

	- ***Server address*** (name of a computer accessible by network, IP address or Internet address).

	- ***Account*** (username, password and account of the OS that runs the WEBDEV sites associated with the account).

	- ***Characteristics of the FTP account*** if necessary (username and password). 


 To easily identify the characteristics of the server for a forthcoming update, give a name to this server. This name will be displayed (followed by the server address) in the window for choosing the type of setup.

2. **The files to install**. By default, the wizard selects the library, data files, images and HTML pages.

3. **Configuring the setup**: Chose the type of remote setup to perform:

	- **Immediate update**:
			The site files are compressed and immediately transferred onto the Web server (the Web server must be accessible from the setup computer). Then, the WEBDEV site is automatically installed on the Web server.

	- **Delayed update**:
			The site files are compressed and immediately transferred onto the Web server (the Web server must be accessible from the setup computer). The WEBDEV site will be installed on the server at the specified date and time. This allows you to update your site during the night (between midnight and 3 AM for example), when the number of Web users is reduced.
			Caution: the specified date and time are the ones of the server. Make sure that they are valid.

	- **Activating the site immediately after setup**:
			The site will be available once it has been installed: you will be able to connect to it either by using the proper address, or via a static page containing a link pointing to the site. If this option is not checked, the site can be activated via the remote administrator.




4. **Configuring the site**. These options are used to configure the options for connecting to the site after its setup.
	These parameters can be modified if necessary:

	- by the deployment administrator found on the server.

	- by the remote administrator, that can be used by the site manager.




5. If the analysis was updated, select the **automatic modification of data files**.
	**Remark**: if this option is selected, the update will be proposed during the setup.
	**Special case**: If the data files found on the server are in Hyper File 5.5 format, they must be migrated to HFSQL Classic format. This migration must be performed during the first site update.

6. Specify whether your site uses the **Native AS/400 Connector**.
	Reminder: if your site uses the Native AS/400 Connector, the AS/400 DLLs must be installed on the Web server.
	If you are using a license for a limited number of computers, the number of current connections must be managed in the WEBDEV site (INI file or registry, ...).




**Summary of elements installed as well as their location**:

| Site server | Data server |
| --- | --- |
| Directory of WEBDEV sites<br>of user N | Data directory <br>of user N |
| Directory defined by the hosting company.<br><br>A subdirectory will be created in this directory for each site of user N. | Directory defined by the hosting company.<br><br>A subdirectory will be created in this directory for the data files of each site of user N. |
| The HTML pages, the library (".WDL") and the image directory are installed in this subdirectory. | ".FIC", ".NDX" and ".MMO" files are installed in this data subdirectory. |
| Example: The directory of sites for user N is "C:\\UserN\\WEBDEV sites".<br><br>The user N installs his site named "Boat". This site will be installed in the "C:\\UserN\\WEBDEV sites\\Boat" directory. | Example : The data directory of user N is "D:\\UserN\\WEBDEV data".<br><br>The user N installs his site named "Boat". By default, the data files will be installed in the "D:\\UserN\\WEBDEV data\\Boat" directory. |



<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Deployment by deployment package
<a name="deployment_deployment_package_ELTTEXTE000670"></a>


### Steps
<a name="steps_ELTPARAGRAPHE000223"></a>

The deployment steps are as follows:

1. Creating the deployment package from the editor: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site". In the wizard, select "Create a remote deployment package". A setup file is created.

2. Sending the deployment package (via the Internet) to the web server administrator (hosting company, for example)

3. Installing the WEBDEV Application Server at the hosting company (optional step). For more details, see the documentation about the WEBDEV Application Server.

4. The hosting company creates a deployment account (via the Hosting Control Center) and an FTP account (in the FTP server) if necessary.

5. Running the deployment package on a computer and installing the WEBDEV site.

6. On-lining the WEBDEV site.



<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Creating the setup
<a name="creating_the_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000251"></a>

In the wizard, define:

1. **The files to install**. By default, the wizard selects the library, data files, images and HTML pages.

2. If the analysis was updated, select the **automatic modification of data files**.
	**Remark**: if this option is selected, the update will be proposed during the setup.
	**Special case**: If the data files found on the server are in Hyper File 5.5 format, they must be migrated to HFSQL Classic format. This migration must be performed during the first site update.

3. **Configuring the site**. These options are used to configure the options for connecting to the site after its setup.
	These parameters can be modified if necessary:

	- by the deployment administrator found on the server.

	- by the remote administrator, that can be used by the site manager.




4. Specify whether your site uses the **Native AS/400 Connector**.
	Reminder: if your site uses the Native AS/400 Connector, the AS/400 DLLs must be installed on the Web server.
	If you are using a license for a limited number of computers, the number of current connections must be managed in the WEBDEV site (INI file or registry, ...). 

5. **The default profile of the Web server to use**. These parameters can be entered or modified by the person who installs the deployment package.

6. **Configuring the setup**: Chose the type of remote setup to perform:

	- **Delayed update**:
			The site files are compressed and immediately transferred onto the Web server (the Web server must be accessible from the computer that installs the package). The WEBDEV site will be installed on the server at the specified date and time. This allows you to update your site during the night (between midnight and 3 AM for example), when the number of Web users is reduced.
			Caution: the specified date and time are the ones of the server. Make sure that they are valid.

	- **Activating the site immediately after setup**:
			The site will be available once it has been installed : you will be able to connect to it either by using the proper address, or via a static page containing a link pointing to the site. If this option is not checked, the site can be activated via the remote administrator.






<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Install the site
<a name="install_the_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000289"></a>

To install a site, you must:

1. Run the deployment package.

2. Specify the characteristics of the web server on which the WEBDEV site must be installed (characteristics of the server deployment account and FTP account, if necessary).

3. Validate the setup of the site.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Deployment by physical media
<a name="deployment_physical_media_ELTTEXTE000706"></a>
This deployment is performed in three steps:

1. Creating the setup version from the editor: on the "Project" tab, in the "Generation" group, expand "Deploy site" and select "Generate and deploy site". In the wizard, select "Create a setup by physical media".

2. Installing (if necessary) the WEBDEV Application Server on the Web server. For more details, see the documentation about the WEBDEV Application Server.

3. Installing the site at the hosting company.



<a name="NOTE5_2"></a>


### Creating the setup
<a name="creating_the_setup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000327"></a>

In the wizard, define:

1. The **files of your site**.
	**Remark**: the library, HTML, Java, JavaScript and image files are selected by default. 

2. The type of deployment: deployment with or without disconnecting the users. 

3. The deployment parameters: 

	- **Activating the site immediately after setup**:
			The site will be available once it has been installed: you will be able to connect to it either by using the proper address, or via a static page containing a link pointing to the site. If this option is not checked, the site can be activated via the remote administrator.

	- **Delayed update**:
			The WEBDEV site will be installed on the server at the specified date and time. This allows you to update your site during the night (between midnight and 3 AM for example), when the number of Web users is reduced.
			Caution: the specified date and time are the ones of the server. Make sure that they are valid.




4. **Configuring the site**. These options are used to configure the options for connecting to the site after its setup.
	These parameters can be modified if necessary:

	- by the deployment administrator found on the server.

	- by the remote administrator, that can be used by the site manager.




5. If the analysis was updated, select the **automatic modification of data files**.
	**Remark**: if this option is selected, the update will be proposed during the setup.

6. If programs not developed with WEBDEV must access the HFSQL files of your site, choose to install an ODBC driver.
	**Remark**: if this option is selected, installing the driver will be proposed during the setup.

7. Specify whether your site uses the **Native AS/400 Connector**.
	Reminder : if your site uses the Native AS/400 Connector, the AS/400 DLLs must be installed on the Web server.
	If you are using a license for a limited number of computers, the number of current connections must be managed in the WEBDEV site (INI file or registry, ...).

8. Indicate if the web server should be included in the setup. In this case, you must select the web server to install. 

9. Specify the setup customization options: 

	- if the setup should be customized. 

	- Default setup directory (site and data). 

	- Setup languages. 

	- Setup title. This title can be written in each language that can be selected during setup.

	- License (txt file). This license will be displayed when setup is launched.
			**Remark**: setup will be canceled if the license is not validated by the person trying to complete the setup process.

	- Readme: this file can correspond to different formats (txt, htm, doc, hlp, pdf, ...). Regardless of the selected format, the user must have a software allowing him to view this file.




10. Modify (if necessary) the **directory for generating** the setup.
	By default, the setup is generated in the "INSTALL" subdirectory of your project.

11. Generate the setup.
	An information window indicates if there are files with **long names**. If the setup is performed on a network drive, make sure that:

	- the network drive supports the long names, 

	- the network drive does not modify the case (uppercase/lowercase characters) in the names of files.




12. When the setup is created, WEBDEV proposes to:

	- test the setup.

	- open the Windows explorer in the directory for setup generation.




13. Perform a backup of your site.
	We advise you to keep a backup of source code corresponding to an installed version of your site.



<a name="NOTE5_3"></a>


### Installing the site on a Web server (physical media)
<a name="installing_the_site_web_server_physical_media_ELTPARAGRAPHE000395"></a>

If you are installing your site via a hosting company, this one can propose two possibilities:

- **Install your site on a "shared" server**. This server manages the sites for several customers. This server is configured when installing the WEBDEV Application Server. The WEBDEV administrator (WD280ADMIN.EXE) is used to individually configure each WEBDEV site installed on this server.
	Caution: The memory resources of server are shared by all sites.

- **Install your site on a "shared" server** (recommended solution). You own this server.
	In this case you must:

	- configure the Web server, 

	- manage the memory resources for your site.







**To install the WEBDEV site on a Web server (at a hosting company or in Intranet)**:

1. Install (if necessary) the **WEBDEV Application Server** on the Web server.
	Caution: if the WEBDEV Application Server is not installed on the Web server, the dynamic WEBDEV site will not operate properly.
	**Remark**: For each Web server that is hosting WEBDEV sites, the hosting company must own a license for the WEBDEV application server.

2. To install the WEBDEV site, **INSTALL.EXE** (provided with the setup of the WEBDEV site) must be run on the Web server.
	**Important**: To update an existing site, you must lock the access to the site via the WEBDEV administrator (check "WEBDEV site locked" in the "Sites" tab).

3. Choose the **setup language**: a setup wizard starts. Go to the next step.

4. The setup automatically detects whether one or more of the following **Internet servers** are installed on the computer:

	- ***IIS Version 7 and later (Microsoft Internet Information Server)***: Microsoft server.

	- ***Apache Version 2.2 and 2.4***: free Web server supplied by the Apache Group.


 Three cases may occur:

- **Case 1 : your Web server is not displayed in this list**: select "Other server". For more details, see the online help about the server configuration.

- **Case 2: your Web server is displayed in the list but it is grayed**: your Web server was not detected. To select it, all you have to do is check "Display all the servers".
			Then, you must ask to generate a configuration file in order to run the configuration later (to install your server later for example).

- **Case 3: your Web sever can be selected directly**: select your server.
			You can ask to generate a configuration file in order to run the configuration later.
			The configuration file can be modified before it is run.
			Depending on the selected server, the extension of configuration file will be ".reg", ".conf" or something else.

5. Select the setup directory:
	&lt;webroot&gt; indicates the root directory of the computer's Web server. Depending on the selected Web server, the root directory is detected and displayed. If the root directory of the Web server does not appear, you can type it in the gray area or find it via the "…" button.
	**Caution**: if the area is filled, we advise you not to modify it.

6. **Updating the data files** (optional step, only for a site update).
	To update the data files associated with the WEBDEV site, choose to run the automatic modification of the data files.
	Contact the provider of the site if you don't know whether you must perform this update or not.
	**Caution**: The data files must not be currently used. Use the WEBDEV administrator to check that no current connection is in progress and to stop the sites (check "Site locked" in the "Sites" tab).

7. Install **an ODBC driver for HFSQL** if programs not developed with WEBDEV must access the HFSQL files of the site that will be installed (optional step).

8. The setup summary is displayed. Confirm your choices.

9. The setup is completed:

	- Click the address that appears to test your site locally. This option can be used only if the Web server was automatically configured.

	- Click "Copy" to retrieve the proposed address. For more details, see ["On-lining the site"](#NOTE6_1).

	- Click "Done" to end the setup.




10. **Configuring the Web server**:
	If the configuration of the Web server was not performed automatically, two cases may occur:

	- Case 1: your server was detected and a configuration file was generated: this file can be viewed, modified (if necessary) and run.

	- Case 2: your server was not detected: for more details, see the online help.




11. Via the WEBDEV administrator, unlock the sites that may be locked and configure the parameters of your dynamic site.
	These parameters correspond to:

	- the total number of authorized connections to the site, 

	- the number of authorized connections for a user, 

	- the authorized idle time.







Test the WEBDEV site from the administrator via the [test page] option ("Advanced" tab).

**Remarks**:

- The WEBDEV administrator (WD280ADMIN.EXE) must be started and running in the background at all times. It can be installed as service.

- For more details about the WEBDEV administrator, see [WEBDEV administrator in practice](../Concepts_WB/1410087384.md).




<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## On-lining the WEBDEV site
<a name="onlining_the_webdev_site_ELTTEXTE000742"></a>
To allow Internet users access to your site installed with a hosting company, create a link in your home page to launch your WEBDEV site.

If the setup was performed by physical media, the address to use was provided at the end of the setup. Replace &lt;localhost&gt; with the address of your site.

**Example used to start a "OURAPP" site from the PC SOFT site**:

```txt
http://www.windev.com/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.EXE/ CONNECT/OURAPP
```


To start the site by using its address (prettyeyes.com for example), you must:

1. Create an "Index.html" home page.

2. In the header of this page, use the html commands (META REFRESH) to perform a redirection towards the WEBDEV site, i.e., towards the following address, for example:
	
	```txt
	"http://205.51.231.57/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.EXE/CONNECT/prettyeyes"
	```





**Example of META tag that must be included in the &lt;HEAD&gt; section of an HTML page**:

```txt
<meta http-equiv="refresh" 
content="0;URL=http://205.51.231.57/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.EXE.EXE/CONNECT/prettyeyes">
```


**Special case: If a home page was defined in your dynamic site**, the address for starting this home page is as follows:

```txt
http://<ServerAddress>/<SiteName>_WEB/
```


| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087485.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087147.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




