
## WEBDEV concepts
<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000047"></a>
WEBDEV is a powerful web-focused Integrated Development Environment that includes all the tools required for developing and maintaining websites. 

In "WEBDEV concepts", you will find the main concepts for creating a powerful WEBDEV site. 
Some concepts are followed by a "Practical" section that presents some features of the editor.

Below is the table of contents: 

Part 1 - Internet: Main concepts

1. What is a website?
2. Static or dynamic site
3. Types of dynamic sites
4. Types of pages
5. Displaying a WEBDEV Session site
6. How to display an AWP site
7. AJAX technology
8. If you are already familiar with WINDEV
9. Hardware and software requirements
Part 2 - Developing a site

1. Project and analysis
2. Projects in practice
3. Site development life cycle
4. Create a page in the editor...
5. The following files are automatically created
6. Editing a page: zoning mode
7. "Mobile friendly" site: Dynamic serving
8. "Mobile friendly" site: Responsive Web Design
9. Internal page
10. Page templates
11. Popup page
12. Pages in practice
13. Types of standard controls
14. Controls in practice
15. Repeating a group of controls: loopers
16. Types of code
17. WLanguage: a simple and powerful language
18. Order of execution of the code of buttons/links
19. Upload: Sending files to the server
20. Control templates
21. Reports
22. Report templates
23. Print modes
24. Displaying and linking pages
25. Performing a process on several successive pages
26. Style sheets: to simplify the layout
27. Center or anchor a site horizontally
28. Site SEO
29. SEO of a site in practice
Part 3 - Dvelopment environment

1. WEBDEV editors
2. User-friendly editors in practice
3. Project dashboard
4. WEBDEV, WINDEV and WINDEV Mobile: fully compatible format
5. Project configuration
6. Multiple generation
7. Source Code Manager (SCM)
8. Sharing a project in practice
9. Internal component
10. Internal components in practice
11. External component
12. External component in practice
13. Generation modes
14. PHP generation in practice
15. Project Monitoring Center
16. Managing requirements
17. Managing tasks
18. Management of business rules
Part 4 - Advanced concepts

1. RAD (Rapid Application Development)
2. UML models
3. UML models in practice
4. User Groupware
5. User Groupware in practice
6. Multilingual sites
7. Multilingual sites in practice
8. 10 tips for better interfaces...
9. Overlaying controls
10. Customizing the aspect of a site: skin elements
11. Choosing the action of a button/link
12. Preventing from going back to a page
13. Security benefit: managing the "Back" button
14. Managing the "Back" button in practice
15. Cookies: information stored on the end user's computer
16. Protecting access to the site: passwords
17. TLS/SSL: Encrypting information on the Web
18. Secure payment
19. Sending emails
Part 5 - Databases

1. Analysis: Database structure
2. Analysis in practice
3. Types of accessible files
4. HFSQL Classic
5. HFSQL Client/Server
6. HFSQL Client/Server clusters
7. HFSQL: files physically created
8. Associating controls with data
9. Queries
10. Embedded queries
11. Table/Looper controls
12. Retrieving data from a site
13. Universal replication
14. 3-Tier architecture
Part 6 - Testing a Web site

1. Testing a site: Elements to be tested
2. How to test a site?
3. Debugger
4. When to use the debugger?
5. Site test in practice
Part 7 - Deploying a Web site

1. Deploying a static site
2. Deploying a static site or a PHP site
3. Deploying a dynamic WEBDEV site
4. Activating a dynamic WEBDEV site
5. Deploying a dynamic site (Session or AWP) in practice
Part 8 - Hosting WEBDEV sites

1. What is the WEBDEV administrator used for
2. WEBDEV administrator in practice
3. Server configuration
4. Dedicated server or shared server?
5. Which type of server to choose?
6. Hosting Control Center
7. Dynamic site on specific configurations
8. Traffic statistics of dynamic sites
9. Monitor your sites, servers, etc.
Part 9 - Appendices

1. WLanguage functions specific to WEBDEV
2. Examples and components provided with WEBDEV| [Previous page](../Concepts_WB/1410087101.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WB/1410087102.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WB/1410087103.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




