


## WDMap: Overview
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000185"></a>
WDMap is a tool used to view and handle a data file while developing an application. **This tool is only available in 32-bit mode.**

WDMap can be used to:

- Quickly check the content of a record.

- Test an application with meaningful data.




The data file used can be: 

- in HFSQL format (Classic or Client/Server). 

- in Hyper File 5.5 format

- accessed via an OLE DB provider, an ODBC driver or a native access. 


You also have the ability to handle an alias of a HFSQL data file.

**Important**: WDMap is only available in 32-bit mode.. If WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile are installed in 64 bit-mode, WDMap is executed in 32-bit mode. For an access via an OLE DB provider, an ODBC driver or a Native Connector, you can use one of the following methods: 

- get a 32-bit client for the database,

- use the [HFSQL Control Center](../CCHF/3540001.md).






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Starting WDMap
<a name="starting_wdmap_ELTTEXTE000215"></a>


### Starting WDMap
<a name="starting_wdmap_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

WDMap can be started:

- from the data model editor: on the "Analysis" tab, in the "File" group, click "Edit with WDMap", 

- from the ribbon: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Database" group, click "WDMap", 

- by running "WDMAP.EXE" directly.




**Remark**: If WDMap is started from the data model editor:

- The physical file corresponding to the description of the selected data file will be created if necessary.

- To take into account the modifications performed on the file description, we advise you to generate the analysis before viewing the file content.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

WDMap cannot be redistributed. WDMap cannot be installed with the applications developed with WINDEV or WEBDEV.

To use WDMap , WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile must be installed on the current computer.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## WDMap features
<a name="wdmap_features_ELTTEXTE000245"></a>


### The different operations that can be performed by WDMap are as follows:
<a name="the_different_operations_that_can_performed_wdmap_are_follows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000092"></a>

- [View the records found in a data file](../WDMap/3517012.md) (all or a selection).

- [Add, modify and delete the records found in a data file](../WDMap/3517017.md).

- [Find records in a data file](../WDMap/3517011.md).

- [Display the characteristics of the database files](../WDMap/3517013.md).

- [Export the records from a data file](../WDMap/3517010.md) (to an Excel, XML or text file).

- [Print records](../WDMap/3517014.md).

- [Reindex a data file](../WDMap/3517006.md).


**Remark**: Depending on how WDMap was started, the operating mode of each operation may change.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000269"></a>


- WDMap can be used to view a single file at a time.

- If the analysis is password protected (runtime password defined in the analysis description), this password is requested when the analysis is selected in WDMap.

- If the data file is password protected (password defined by [HPass](../WDLang4/3044108.md), [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) or [HCreationIfNotFound](../WDLang4/3044254.md), or during the [automatic data modification](../WDLang4/3044195.md)), this password will be requested when the physical file is selected in WDMap.

- You have the ability to view the data found in an HFSQL Client/Server data file: for example, if the analysis files are defined as being in Client/Server mode, with a connection, the option "Edit the data file with WDMAP" opens the data file of server according to the specified connection. 





