
## MyPopupControl (Reserved word)

***In french: MonChampPopup***
				



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
**MyPopupControl** is used to handle the control that opened a popup window.

At runtime, **MyPopupControl** is replaced with:

- The control that opened the popup window (which means the control from which [OpenPopup](../WDLang1/3038046.md) or [OpenPopupPosition](../WDLang1/3038047.md) was called).

- The control specified in [OpenPopupPosition](../WDLang1/3038047.md) if *poAccordingToControl* was chosen as display mode.




In any case, **MyPopupControl** is replaced at runtime by the corresponding control (and not by the name of the control). Then, **MyPopupControl** can be used like any control.

Advantage: **MyPopupControl** is used to make a local code (control, button, ...) or a global code (global procedure, class, ...) independent of the current popup window.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF MyPopupControl..Type = typButton THEN
	MyPopupControl..Caption = "Selection in progress"
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`MyPopupControl`
---



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Handling the control that opened the popup window
<a name="handling_the_control_that_opened_the_popup_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

- **MyPopupControl** is always replaced with the control that opened the popup window. Therefore, it can be handled from the code of the popup window. For example:
	
	```wl
	IF MyPopupControl..Type = typButton THEN 
		MyPopupControl..Caption = "Selection in progress"
	END
	
	// Pass as parameter:
	CallProcedure(MyPopupControl)
	```


- **MyPopupControl** can only be used in the processes that handle the current popup window (in the processes associated with a control for example). **MyPopupControl** cannot be used in a report or in a window that is not a popup report or a popup window.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Using MyPopupControl in a procedure
<a name="using_mypopupcontrol_procedure_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

- The **MyPopupControl** keyword can be used in a local or global procedure only if the procedure is called in a process associated with a control of the popup window or in a process of the popup window. In this case, **MyPopupControl** refers to the control that opened the popup window.

- **MyPopupControl** is used to make a procedure "generic": the name of the control is not spelled out. This procedure can be called by several controls.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### WLanguage functions and current window
<a name="wlanguage_functions_and_current_window_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

To specify the control that opened the current popup window in the WLanguage functions accepting a control name as parameter, use the **MyPopupControl** keyword.


