


## MyControl (Reserved word)

***In french: MonChamp***
				



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The **MyControl** keyword represents the control that holds the process being executed. 

**Use**: **MyControl** is commonly used in procedures and properties directly associated with controls.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Use the MyControl keyword to add elements in a Table control
// Initialization code of a Table control
MyControl.AddLine("Davis", "Peter")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`MyControl`
---



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Handling the current control
<a name="handling_the_current_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

- The **MyControl** keyword is always replaced with the current control. For example:

	- **MyControl.&lt;WLanguage property&gt;** 
			Calls and executes the specified property on the current control. Example: 
			
		```wl
		// Click code of the Button control
		Mycontrol.Caption = "Test in progress"
		```


	- **MyControl.&lt;WLanguage function in prefix syntax&gt;** 
			Calls and executes the specified function on the current control. Example: 
			
		```wl
		// Initialization code of a Table control
		MyControl.AddLine("Davis", "Peter")
		```


	- **MyControl.&lt;User property&gt;**
			Calls and executes a user property linked to the control. This user property can be created and associated with the control by selecting "New property" in the context menu of the control in the "Project explorer" pane. 

	- **MyControl.&lt;User procedure&gt;**
			Calls and executes a user procedure linked to the control. This user procedure can be created and associated with the control by selecting "New procedure" in the context menu of the control in the "Project explorer" pane. 







Remark: If a user property overrides a WLanguage property or function, simply use "WL." before the "MyControl" keyword to call the original WLanguage property or function. For example: 

```txt
// The "Caption" property has been redefined for the control
// Use of the WLanguage "Caption" property
WL.MyControl.Caption = "Test"
```



### Specific uses
<a name="specific_uses_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

- The **MyControl** keyword can be used in an internal procedure defined directly in one of the events of the control. 

- The **MyControl** keyword cannot be used: 

	- In a procedure local to the window. 

	- In a procedure global to the window. 

	- In a procedure called by a thread or a parallel task. 








