
## Constant

***In french: Constante***
				



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
The constants are language elements whose value is fixed once and for all. This value cannot be modified during the execution of the program.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
CONSTANT
	VATRate = 20
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Declaring one or more constants

`CONSTANT
     <Name of Constant 1> = <Value 1>
     <Name of Constant 2> = <Value 2>
END
`
---

**`<CONSTANT>: ()`**

Marks the beginning of the declaration of constants.

**`<Name of Constant>: ()`**

Name of constant to declare.

**`<Value>: ()`**

Value of the constant.

**`<END>: ()`**

Marks the end of the declaration of constants.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Declaring the constants
<a name="declaring_the_constants_ELTPARAGRAPHE000077"></a>

The constants must be declared in:

- ***The initialization code of project*** in order to be used in all the processes of the project (codes of project, codes of windows, codes of controls, procedures, ...).

- ***The declaration code of global variables of a window*** in order to be used in all the processes of the window (code of window, codes of controls found in the window, local procedures, ...).

- ***The opening code of a report*** in order to be used in all the processes of the report (codes of report, code of controls found in the report, local procedures, ...).

- ***The declaration code of a class*** in order to be used in the class.

	- To access this constant from a method of the class, use the syntax "::&lt;Constant name>".

	- To access this constant from a code external to the class, use the following syntax "&lt;Class name&gt;::&lt;Constant name>".







**Remark**: A constant is always global:

- to a project,

- to a window,

- to a page, 

- to a report,

- to a class.





<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Limits: Declaring a constant member
<a name="limits_declaring_constant_member_ELTPARAGRAPHE000112"></a>

A constant member cannot be declared in:

- a structure, 

- a composite variable.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### Limits: Declaring constants with the same name
<a name="limits_declaring_constants_with_the_same_name_ELTPARAGRAPHE000123"></a>

- Several elements (variables or constants) with the same name cannot be declared in the same process.

- If a constant and a variable have the same name in the same project:

	- the ***variable*** will be used in the process where it was declared and in all the linked processes. 
			For example, the variable is declared in the click code of a button. When clicking this button, this variable is passed as parameter to a local procedure. This variable will be used in this local procedure.

	- the ***constant*** will be used in all the other processes.




- If a constant "global" to the project and a constant "global" to a window have the same name:

	- the ***constant "global" to the window*** will be used in all the processes of the window and window controls as well as in the "local" procedures of the window.

	- the ***constant "global" to the project*** will be used in all the other processes.








