
## Dynamic Automation object

***In french: Automation Dynamique***
				



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
A dynamic automation object is an automation object allocated upon request, during the program execution. The Automation objects are used to handle software such as Office 2007 (Word, Excel, ...).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Declare a dynamic automation object
MyDynamicObject is dynamic automation object
```


<a name="Example2"></a>



```wl
// Create a dynamic automation object
MyDynamicObject = new automation object MyServer
```


<a name="Example3"></a>





```wl
// Calling a method of a dynamic automation object
MyDynamicObject>>OpenFile(DocName)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Declaring a dynamic automation object

`<Name of dynamic automation object> is dynamic automation object
`
---

**`<Name of dynamic automation object>: (Character string)`**

Name of the dynamic automation object to declare.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Creating a dynamic automation object

`<Name of dynamic automation object> = new automation object <Name of automation server>
`
---

**`<Name of dynamic automation object>: (Character string)`**

Name of the dynamic automation object to create. This object was declared beforehand.

**`<Name of automation server>: (Character string)`**

Name of the server of dynamic automation object.  


<a name="SYNTAX3"></a>

### Call a method of a dynamic automation object

`<Name of dynamic automation object>>><Method name>([<Parameters>])
`
---

**`<Name of dynamic automation object>: (Character string)`**

Name of the dynamic automation object to use. This object was previously declared and allocated.

**`<Method name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the method of the dynamic automation object to run. This method is given by the server.

Remark: The list of available methods depends on the automation server. See the documentation about the server for more details.

**`<Parameters>: (Any type (optional))`**

Parameters passed to the method.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Lifespan of a dynamic automation object
<a name="lifespan_dynamic_automation_object_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

The dynamic automation object is created when allocating the object.

The dynamic automation object is automatically destroyed at the end of the process containing its declaration or when a new allocation is performed on the object.

A dynamic automation object declared "global" in the code:

- ***that initializes a window*** will be destroyed at the end of the closing process of the window.

- ***that initializes a project*** will be destroyed at the end of the closing process of the first project window.




To explicitly free a dynamic automation object, use the following syntax:


```txt
Delete <Name of dynamic automation object>
```

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Allocating a dynamic object
<a name="allocating_dynamic_object_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

- When allocating a dynamic automation object, the automation server is automatically started.

- To allocate a dynamic automation object with an existing instance of an automation server, use [GetActiveObject](../WDLang3/3057006.md).



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Passing parameters to a method
<a name="passing_parameters_method_ELTPARAGRAPHE000095"></a>

- The methods of automation servers can accept one or more parameters.

- When calling a method, the sequence of parameters must be respected (see the documentation for more details).

- With some automation servers, some method parameters are not valued: only the presence of the parameter is important. The value taken by this parameter has no importance.
	For example, the "EditReplace" method of Word Basic accepts 10 parameters, the last one (ReplaceAll) being not valued.
	In WLanguage, any ordinary value can be passed to non-valued parameters.

- The methods of some automation servers can accept optional parameters located anywhere in the list of parameters.




In WLanguage, the optional parameters must necessarily be found after the mandatory parameters.

To give any ordinary value to an optional parameter, assign the \* character to the optional parameter. On the contrary, this character will not be required for the optional parameters found after the last mandatory parameter.
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


