
## 1. The WINDEV Framework
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WD/1410087078.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WD/1410087098.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WD/1410087080.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>
The WINDEV Framework is the set of libraries (.DLL files) required to run a WINDEV application.

When creating the executable, you can choose:

- a Framework-dependent executable, 

- a self-contained executable,

- the common WINDEV Framework. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Using a Framework-dependent executable
<a name="using_frameworkdependent_executable_ELTTEXTE000159"></a>
When using a Framework-dependent executable, the libraries are installed in the directory of each application. Therefore, each WINDEV application uses its own version of the libraries. Libraries can be renamed when you use a Framework-dependent executable.

**Advantages of using a Framework-dependent executable**:

- Each application can use a different version of the Framework DLLs.

- The Framework of a given application can be updated without affecting other applications.

- The Framework can be renamed.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Using a self-contained executable
<a name="using_selfcontained_executable_ELTTEXTE000183"></a>
When the Framework is included in the executable file, it is a self-contained executable. The Framework DLLs are not extracted when the executable file is run.

**Advantages of using a self-contained executable**:

- Self-contained executable. 

- The Framework DLLs are not extracted. 




**Remark** : Depending on the features used by the application, it may not be possible to use a self-contained executable.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Using the common WINDEV Framework
<a name="using_the_common_windev_framework_ELTTEXTE000207"></a>
When you use the common Framework, the libraries are installed in a common directory. These libraries are shared between all the WINDEV applications installed on the same computer.

**Advantages of the common Framework**:

- The disk space used by the Framework (about 30 MB) is shared between all the applications.

- The Framework is updated only once for all the applications installed. 

- The common Framework can be renamed. 




**Remark** : When you use the common Framework, you can replace one or more DLLs (if a specific version is required, for example).

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WD/1410087078.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WD/1410087098.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WD/1410087080.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




