
## WDOptimizer: Editing and modifying a ".REP" file
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000101"></a>
The &lt;MyProject&gt;.REP file contains the list of files used by the application (identifier, logical name and full path of physical file).

The GUID of the analysis is the unique identifier of the analysis linked to the project, containing the description of files. This identifier can be found in the data model editor, in the analysis description ("Options" tab).

The file GUID corresponds to the identifier of logical file. This identifier can be found in the data model editor, in the description window of file ("Notes" tab).

This file is automatically created in the directory of the application and it is filled by the HFSQL engine.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## REP files
<a name="rep_files_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>


### What are REP files for?
<a name="what_are_rep_files_for_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

The .REP file is used to easily locate the data files that have been used by the WINDEV application or by the WEBDEV site.

The WINDEV application or the WEBDEV site automatically updates the .REP file but it does not often use the .REP file.

This file is used by all the tools that handle the application files, and mainly by the automatic file update, etc.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Example: Updating an application while modifying the analysis
<a name="example_updating_application_while_modifying_the_analysis_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

When updating a WINDEV application, the automatic modification of data files is automatically started if the structure of the database is modified.

This procedure uses the .REP file to find the physical files used by the application in order to modify them.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Editing and modifying a .REP file
<a name="editing_and_modifying_rep_file_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>


### Editing and modifying a .REP file
<a name="editing_and_modifying_rep_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

To edit and modify a REP file:

1. Start WDOptimizer.

2. Select "Edit and modify a .REP file".

3. Select the .REP file. The files found in the selected .REP file are listed.

4. To delete all the files that do not exist, click the "Clean" button.

5. To delete the selected file, click the "Delete" button.





