


## WDHFDiff - Use
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000164"></a>
WDHFDiff is used to compare:

- the structure of two HFSQL data files.

- the data in two HFSQL data files.

- the common data files found in two different directories.






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Comparing two HFSQL data files
<a name="comparing_two_hfsql_data_files_ELTTEXTE000194"></a>


### Comparing the structure of two HFSQL data files
<a name="comparing_the_structure_two_hfsql_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To compare the structure of two HFSQL data files: 

1. On the "Tools" tab, in the "Database" group, click "WDHFDiff".

2. Click the "Compare 2 files" button.

3. Select the two files to compare.

4. Enter (if necessary) the passwords of the files to compare.

5. Click the "Compare the structure" button. The differences found are automatically listed:

	- differences regarding the WLanguage properties of the compared files.

	- list of items found in the first file, in the second file and common to both files.

	- differences regarding the WLanguage properties of the items in the compared files.






<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Comparing the data found in two HFSQL data files
<a name="comparing_the_data_found_two_hfsql_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

To compare the data found in two HFSQL data files:

1. On the "Tools" tab, in the "Database" group, click "WDHFDiff".

2. Compare the structure of the two data files. For more details, see the above paragraph.

3. Click the "Compare the data" button.

4. Select the type of comparison to perform:

	- comparison by record number. The records found in the data files will be compared according to their identifier.

	- comparison by unique key. The records found in the data files will be compared according to the unique keys common to both files.
			Remark: In this type of comparison, the crossed and/or deleted records will not be compared.




5. Select the items to compare.
	Reminder: The "All" button is used to select all the available items. The "None" button is used to deselect the selected items.

6. Click "OK". The differences found are automatically listed.

7. Double-click a difference to find out its characteristics.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Comparing the common data files found in two directories
<a name="comparing_the_common_data_files_found_two_directories_ELTTEXTE000224"></a>
To compare the common data files found in two different directories:

1. On the "Tools" tab, in the "Database" group, click "WDHFDiff".

2. Click the "Compare 2 directories" button.

3. Select the two directories to compare.

4. Click the "Scan" button. The data files common to the two selected directories are automatically listed.

5. Select the data files to compare.
	Reminder: The "All" button is used to select all the available files. The "None" button is used to deselect the selected files.

6. Click the "Compare" button. The number of differences found in each data file is automatically displayed.

7. Double-click a file to find out its differences:

	- differences regarding the WLanguage properties of the compared files.

	- list of items found in the first file, in the second file and common to both files.

	- differences regarding the WLanguage properties of the items in the compared files.




8. Click the "Compare the data" button to perform a comparison by record number on the data files. The differences found are automatically listed.

9. Double-click a difference to find out its characteristics.





