
## WEBDEV 28: New features in this version
			

<a name="NOTE1us"></a>
<a name="NOTE1us_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000391"></a>
Here are the main new features and improvements in this update. **Several improvements have been made in this version.**




This help page presents the new features and improvements in "Update 1" (Version 280085).

<a name="NOTE2us"></a>
<a name="NOTE2us_1"></a>


## New features and improvements in "Update 1" (version 280085)
<a name="new_features_and_improvements_update_1_version_280085_ELTTEXTE000415"></a>
**Environment**

- New skin: Velvet.

- In addition to the Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V shortcuts, copy and paste options are now available in the context menu of controls.   




**Page editor**

- Improved style selection window ("Choose a style" in the context menu of the control). 

- **Improved layouts**: in a layout: 

	- **hidden controls** (via "Layouts .. Visibility by layout .. Hide in this layout" in the context menu): 
			Are always hidden (regardless of the value of the Visible property).

	- **non-hidden controls**:
			**Starting with version 28 Update 1**, they **always** take into account the value of the Visible property (set by default in the description window of the control, and modifiable programmatically)




- **New behavior: characteristics of a CSS style ("Style" tab of the description window of a control)**: 

	- Until version 28, you could select a CSS style associated to the control to determine the characteristics of that CSS style. (No distinction was made between standard and overridden characteristics). 

	- Starting with version 28 Update 1, you can distinguish overridden characteristics of the CSS style of the control from non-overridden characteristics. The &lt;Undefined&gt; tag appears next to non-overridden characteristics.








