
## WINDEV 28: New features in this version
			

<a name="NOTE1us"></a>
<a name="NOTE1us_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000389"></a>
Here are the main new features and improvements in this update. **Several improvements have been made in this version.**



This help page presents the new features and improvements in "Update 1" (Version 280085).

<a name="NOTE2us"></a>
<a name="NOTE2us_1"></a>


## New features and improvements in "Update 1" (version 280085)
<a name="new_features_and_improvements_update_1_version_280085_ELTTEXTE000413"></a>
**Environment**

- New skin template: Eleven.

- In addition to the Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V shortcuts, copy and paste options are now available in the context menu of controls.  




**Window editor**

- Improved style selection window ("Choose a style" in the context menu of the control). 




**Installation of WINDEV applications**
WDSetup, the default installer for WINDEV applications, has been revamped and now offers a better and more consistent interface for all applications developed with WINDEV. 
All WINDEV application setup programs regenerated with WINDEV Update 1 will automatically use this new interface. 
Since this is a cleaner interface, some options have changed. These changes affect: 

- The setup program creation wizard: 

	- In "Installer skin template", you can only select a background image. It is no longer possible to select a specific skin template. 

	- In "Title and logo", it is no longer possible to customize the side image by clicking "Logo". 




- The options in the WDInst setup editor: 

	- The "Side image of the wizard" option has been removed from the "Style" tab. 

	- In the "Wizard" tab, the "Wizard skin template" option only allows choosing a background image for the wizard. It is no longer possible to select a specific skin template.The "WDSetup" example has also been updated to use the new interface.








