
## SessionHeartBeatEnable (Function)

***In french: SessionHeartBeatActive***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the "heartbeat" of the current session.

Remark: By default, the heartbeat of the current session is set to 5 minutes.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
SessionHeartBeatEnable(True, 10 min)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`SessionHeartBeatEnable(<Enabled> [, <Interval>])`
---

**`<Enabled>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to enable the heartbeat, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to disable it. 




**`<Interval>: (Optional duration or string)`**

Interval between two calls. This parameter can correspond to:

- a Duration variable, 

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 5min).


The default interval is 5 minutes (unless the session timeout is shorter). 
 Remark: the WEBDEV Application Server has a wait time set to 1 minute, regardless of the interval configured. Therefore, this minute is always added to the interval specified by the parameter.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Principle
<a name="principle_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

The purpose of the session heartbeat is to reduce server load by closing sessions earlier (for example, by detecting sessions where the user is offsite). 

The HeartBeat feature is an automatic process on the browser that regularly sends information to the server (e.g. every 5 minutes) to indicate that the browser is open. Once the user has closed the browser, the server no longer receives this HeartBeat and can therefore close the session immediately, without waiting for the timeout. 

**Caution**: The HeartBeat does not allow extending the session beyond the idle user timeout (defined in the WEBDEV Application Server). If you set a session timeout to 10 minutes, the session will be closed after 10 minutes without an action from the user, even if the browser is still open.

Therefore, choosing the right interval is essential: 

- If the interval is too big, sessions remain open for too long. 

- If the interval is too short, the server is unnecessarily loaded with heartbeat calls to keep the sessions alive. 




Caution: These heartbeat calls consume resources (network and battery) in the case of mobile clients.

The WEBDEV Application Server attempts to dynamically detect whether the session can be kept alive. Sessions are ended sooner only if the application server detects that the page displayed on the client side is a page from the site. Otherwise, (e.g. an external payment page is displayed), sessions are not ended. 


### Notes
<a name="notes_ELTPARAGRAPHE000068"></a>

- The call to **SessionHeartBeatEnable** is taken into account from the next page returned by the WEBDEV Application Server. 

- If the configuration is to be applied to all pages of a site, **SessionHeartBeatEnable** must be called in the initialization code of the project, or of the first page (or any code called before the first page is returned).

- **SessionHeartBeatEnable** also enables the heartbeat in test mode (project or page test via "Go"). It is usually ignored because the test mode detects the browser is closed and the session is immediately terminated.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
