


## PopupAnimate (Function)

***In french: PopupAnime***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Displays a Popup control in a Cell control of the page. If the cell already contains a Popup control, an animation is played during the transition.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
PopupAnimate(POPUP_Details, CELL_Main)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`PopupAnimate(<Popup control> , <Destination Cell control> [, <Animation> [, <Duration>]])`
---

**`<Popup control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Popup control to be displayed.

**`<Destination Cell control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Cell control where the popup will be displayed.

**`<Animation>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Animation used: 


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *animCoverUp* | Slide the Popup control up cover the previous content. |
| *animSlideLeft*<br>(Default value) | Slide the Popup control to the left. |
| *animSlideRight* | Slide the Popup control to the right. |
| *animUncoverDown* | Slide the previous content down and uncover the Popup control. |



**`<Duration>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Duration of animation in hundredths of a second (100 hundredths of a second which means 1 second by default). This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000081"></a>

When calling the function, if:

- No Popup control is displayed in the Cell control:

	- The content of the Cell control is destroyed.

	- The Popup control is displayed immediately (without animation).




- A Popup control is displayed in the cell:

	- The new Popup control is displayed gradually using the specified animation.







The Cell and Popup controls must have the following characteristics:

- The Cell and Popup controls must be in the same page.

- The horizontal overflow of the Cell control must be invisible.

- The Popup and Cell controls must be the same width.

- The Popup and Cell controls must be at least the same height.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000105"></a>

- When a Popup control is displayed for the first time in a Cell control, the content of the Cell control is deleted.

- If a Popup control is displayed in a Cell control, the Popup control can no longer be used through programming except with [PopupAnimate](../WDLang2/1000020313.md).

- The Popup control displayed is not kept when the page is redisplayed. If a server Button control (non AJAX) is used to refresh the page, use **PopupAnimate** to redisplay the right Popup control.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
