
## ChangeSourcePage (Function)

***In french: ChangePageSource***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Dynamically changes the page displayed in an Internal Page control. During this modification, parameters can be passed to the new internal page.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Load IPAGE_InternalPage
// in IPAGE_InternalPageControl
ChangeSourcePage(IPAGE_InternalPageControl, IPAGE_InternalPage)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`ChangeSourcePage(<Internal Page control> , <Internal page> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Internal Page control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Internal Page control that will be modified.

**`<Internal page>: (Name of internal page)`**

Name of the internal page that will be associated with the Internal Page control.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type corresponding to the parameter (optional))`**

First parameter that will be passed to the internal page.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type corresponding to the parameter (optional))`**

Nth parameter that will be passed to the internal page.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Events run when changing the internal page
<a name="events_run_when_changing_the_internal_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

The following events are executed when **ChangeSourcePage** is called:

- "Before unloading the internal page". This event is associated with Internal Page control. 

- "Close" event of the previous internal window.

- "Global declarations" of the new internal page.

- "Initialization" event of the controls in the new internal page. 

- "Initialization" event of the internal page.

- "After loading the internal page". This event is associated with the Internal Page control. 



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Limitations
<a name="limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000054"></a>

- The names and parameters of the called functions must be identical on both pages. 

- If a control of the internal page is used directly from outside, there must be a control with the same name in the new internal page.

- The values of global variables for the previous internal page are lost.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### SourcePage property
<a name="sourcepage_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

The [SourcePage](../Proprietes/1000021228.md) property returns the name of the internal page currently displayed in an Internal Page control.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280page.dll
