


## jQueryExecute (Function)

***In french: jQueryExecute***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Runs a JavaScript method of the jQuery library on a page element.

Remarks: 

- [jQuery](../WDLang2/1000021070.md) is used to run several chained methods. 

- This function is an advanced feature: a good knowledge of JavaScript and jQuery library is required



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// The CELL_Square control explodes before it disappears
jQueryExecute(CELL_Square,"effect","explode")

// Modify the opacity of the STC_1 control
jQueryExecute(STC_1, "fadeTo", "opacity", 0.5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = jQueryExecute(<Control used> [, <Category>] , <jQuery function> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Expected type)`**

Return value of jQuery method called.

**`<Control used>: (Control name)`**

Name of control that will be used in the page. 

Remark: The option "The control can be overlaid" must be checked for the control ("UI" tab in the control description window).

**`<Category>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the category of functions in the jQuery library. 

**`<jQuery function>: (Character string)`**

Name of jQuery function to run. 

Caution: JavaScript being case sensitive, the function name must respect the case used in the jQuery library.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Optional character string)`**

First parameter expected by the jQuery function. 



**`<Parameter N>: (Optional character string)`**

Nth parameter expected by the jQuery function.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Parameters of jQuery function
<a name="parameters_jquery_function_ELTPARAGRAPHE000052"></a>If a procedure ("Callback") must be passed as parameter to the jQuery function, the browser procedure must be passed by reference (function name preceded by "&"). For example: 


```wl
jQueryExecute(BTN_Addition, "click", &OnAddition)
```



### Loading the jQuery libraries
<a name="loading_the_jquery_libraries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

Several versions are available for the jQuery library. Several Javascript files can be found in the jQuery library.

Therefore, the additional JavaScript libraries must be loaded. Two methods are available: 

- include the JavaScript load code in the header code of the page. 

- download the Javascript jQuery libraries on the server and include the Javascript files in your project or page.




**Method 1: To include the load code in the page**: 

1. Display the description window of the page ("Description" in the context menu). 

2. Select the "Advanced" tab. 

3. Select the "HTML" tab. 

4. Copy the following code lines into the "HTML code added to the page header" area:   



```html
<script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.js"></script>
<script src="http://code.jquery.com/ui/1.10.3/jquery-ui.js"></script>
```
Caution: When this help page was written, the libraries were available in version 1.9.1 and 1.10.3. We advise you to check whether these versions are still the current ones. 

**Method 2: To include the Javascript files in your page (after download)**: 

1. Display the description window of the page ("Description" in the context menu). 

2. Select the "Advanced" tab. 

3. Select the "HTML" tab.

4. Click the "Add" button and select the necessary JavaScript files (.js). Caution: we advise you to check which versions are the current ones. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
