
## GglAnalyticsAddTiming (Function)

***In french: GglAnalyticsAjouteDurée***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a duration beside Google Analytics. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
GglAnalyticsAddTiming("3d js dependencies",  "load", dDuration.InMilliseconds)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`GglAnalyticsAddTiming(<Category> , <Action> , <Duration> [, <Caption> [, <Options>]])`
---

**`<Category>: (Character string)`**

Name of category. Used to group several different actions ("JavaScript action" for example).

**`<Action>: (Character string)`**

Name of action to identify ("page load" for example).

**`<Duration>: (Integer ou Duration)`**

Duration of the action (in milliseconds) that will be sent to Google Analytics. This parameter can be: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 




**`<Caption>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional caption used to simplify the filing in the Google Analytics reports ("Google CDN" for example).
This parameter corresponds to an empty string by default. 

**`<Options>: (Optional variant)`**

Additional options dependent on Google Analytics. For more details on the possible values, se the Google Analytics documentation at [https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/user-timings](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/user-timings). 
This parameter is set to Null by default.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- To use this function, you must have and save a Google Analytics identifier in the project. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md). 

- **Remark**: As of July 1, 2023, Google Analytics is moving from Universal Analytics to Google Analytics 4. WEBDEV 28 manages both versions. The WLanguage functions have been adapted. By Default, for existing projects, the managed mode is Universal Analytics and for new projects, the managed mode is Google Analytics 4. For more details, see [WEBDEV and Google Analytics](../WDLang2/1000022374.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
