
## BrowserHistoryAdd (Function)

***In french: NavigateurHistoriqueAjoute***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds an entry into the history of navigation by associating data. This data will be transmitted when going back to this entry.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Goes to the next application plane
CELL_Main.Plane++
// Adds an history entry
// The transmitted data is the plane number
BrowserHistoryAdd(CELL_Main.Plane, MyPage.Title, "#Plane" + CELL_Main.Plane)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`BrowserHistoryAdd(<Data> [, <Title> [, <URL>]])`
---

**`<Data>: (Type of data)`**

Status associated with the page for the new history entry. 

**`<Title>: (Optional character string)`**

New title for the page.
Caution: this title is currently ignored by most browsers.

**`<URL>: (Optional character string)`**

New URL that will be displayed by the browser. This URL is used for the display in the address bar only. Therefore, there is no need to use a valid URL. However, if the user copies this URL in order to use it in another browser, the page load will fail if the URL is not valid.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

The added data describes the status associated with the page for the new history entry. 

If the Web user goes back to an entry in the history, the stored data will be transmitted to the "Move in the navigation history" event (optional page event). This event must process the data in order to restore the page status. This process must be associated with a procedure that expects the transmitted data as parameter: 

```txt
// Event "Move in the navigation history (onpopstate)"
PROCEDURE <ProcedureName>(<Data>)
```


Example: This example adds the page into the history and stores the insertion time. Going back to the previous history page displays the time.

```wl
x is Variant
x.Time = TimeSys()
BrowserHistoryAdd(x, MyPage.Title, "#before") 

x.Time = TimeSys()
BrowserHistoryAdd(x, MyPage.Title, "#after")
```

```wl
// Event "Move in the navigation history (onpopstate)" 
PROCEDURE ProcessHistory(stStatus)
Info(stStatus.Time)
```


Remark: Depending on the browser, the event "Move in the navigation history (onpopstate)" is also run when loading the page and when going back to the initial page display. In this case, the &lt;Data&gt; parameter transmitted to the event corresponds to Null.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Preventing the use of the browser's "Back" key
<a name="preventing_the_use_the_browsers_back_key_ELTPARAGRAPHE000060"></a>

You can prevent the use of the browser's "Back" key. For more details, see [Preventing the use of the browser's "Back" key](../WDChamp/1012009.md). 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
