
## Obtaining an SSL certificate for IIS7 (or later)
			

<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>


## Steps to follow
<a name="steps_follow_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>
To get an SSL certificate for IIS 7 (and later), the different steps are as follows: 

1. [Creating the certification request](#NOTE1_1). 

2. [Sending the certification request to an authority](#NOTE2_1). 

3. [Implementing the certificate](#NOTE3_1).




IIS 7 can also be used to create a [self-signed certificate](#NOTE4_1).  

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Step #1: Creating the certification request
<a name="step_1_creating_the_certification_request_ELTTEXTE000162"></a>
To create a certification request:

1. Open the Internet Information Services Manager ("Start .. Run": Inetmgr.exe).

2. Select the current computer (the root of connections). 

3. Double-click "Server certificates". 

4. In the screen that is displayed, click the "Create a certificate request" link. A wizard starts. 

5. Fill the requested information and specify the name of file to generate. 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Step #2: Sending the certification request to an authority
<a name="step_2_sending_the_certification_request_authority_ELTTEXTE000186"></a>
The certification request must be sent to a certificate authority (for example: www.verisign.com). This example presents the steps to follow to send a certificate request to Verisign. These steps are similar for the other authorities.

The different steps are as follows: 

1. In your browser, type: http://www.verisign.com

2. Click "Free Trial". This option allows you to get a free certificate valid for 15 days.

3. Fill out the short form and click "Submit".

4. Follow the certification wizard step by step:

	- *Step 1 of 5*: Generate CSR: Click "Continue".

	- *Step 2 of 5*: Submit CSR: Copy the content of the file that was created beforehand (Step 1) into the input area and click "Continue".

	- *Step 3 of 5*: Complete Application: The content of the certificate is displayed, enter your personal details (Caution: the accented characters are not allowed, the information must be similar to the one found in the certificate content. Example: the area, the company.). Type your email address, the certificate will be sent to this address. Click "Accept".







The certificate will be sent to you within an hour.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Step #3: Implementing the certificate
<a name="step_3_implementing_the_certificate_ELTTEXTE000210"></a>
The following operations must be performed: 

1. Your certificate is in the email sent by VeriSign.

	- Select the part that looks like this.
			
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
			
MIICBzCCAbECEFi+J6vFjN+EkkfCKLgi6uUwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEEBQAwgakxFjAUBgNVBAoTDVZlcmlTaWduLCB
			
JbmMxRzBFBgNVBAsTPnd3dy52ZXJpc2lnbi5jb20vcmVwb3NpdG9yeS9UZXN0Q1BTIEluY29ycC4gQnkgUmVmLi
			
BMaWFiLiBMVEQuMUYwRAYDVQQLEz1Gb3IgVmVyaVNpZ24gYXV0aG9yaXplZCB0ZXN0aW5nIG9ubHkuIE5vIGFzc
			
3VyYW5jZXMgKEMpVlMxOTk3MB4XDTAwMDkwMTAwMDAwMFoXDTAwMDkxNTIzNTk1OVowZDELMAkGA1UEBhMCRlIx
			
EjAQBgNVBAgTCUxBTkdVRURPQzEUMBIGA1UEBxQLTU9OVFBFTExJRVIxDDAKBgNVBAoUA1BDUzEPMA0GA1UECxQ
			
GV0VCREVWMQwwCgYDVQQDFANtcjIwXDANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAANLADBIAkEAmqKCTidFBZEwI0Q7WPTBlQzlac
			
Qi5nwjNndrWU2tjGMElrY0IxoduwTgRX+DY42IuptGERQApb5NCx/4/3iBrQIDAQABMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBBAUAA
			
0EABT7REV9bLiq3EFiug+a/irlbYI7aNiuITsdSVO7j34baFtxaa2jTE4JoGrNhrWTQZgBl1GOMpuMef/MuwXHO
			
1A==
			
-----END CERTIFICATE-----




	- Copy the selected part into a new file named "Certif.cer" for example.

2. Open the Internet Information Services Manager ("Start .. Run": Inetmgr.exe).

3. Select the current computer (the root of connections). 

4. Double-click "Server certificates". 

5. In the screen that is displayed, click the "End the certificate request" link. A wizard starts. 

6. Select the file that was just created (Certif.cer) and end the wizard.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Self-signed certificate
<a name="selfsigned_certificate_ELTTEXTE000234"></a>
IIS 7 can be used to create a self-signed certificate. This option allows you to create a local certificate to check the SSL. 

To create a self-signed certificate:

1. Open the Internet Information Services Manager ("Start .. Run": Inetmgr.exe).

2. Select the current computer (the root of connections). 

3. Double-click "Server certificates". 

4. In the screen that is displayed, click the "Create a self-signed certificate" link. A wizard starts. 





