
## JSInfoEvent (Function)

***In french: JSInfoEvénement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to handle the JavaScript properties of the browser event that triggered the code execution. Allows you to: 

- read a JavaScript property of the event.

- assign a value to a JavaScript property of the event. 




This function is an advanced function: a good knowledge of Javascript is required.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Read the position of the mouse during a click
nXPos is int = JSInfoEvent("customerX")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Retrieving the value of an event property

`<Result> = JSInfoEvent([<Property>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Variant)`**

Property value.

**`<Property>: (Optional character string)`**

Property to use. If this parameter is not specified, **JSInfoEvent** retrieves the object directly. **JSInfoEvent** can be used as an argument of a browser procedure written in JavaScript.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Modifying a property of the event 

`JSInfoEvent(<Property>)`
---

**`<Property>: (Character string)`**

Property to use.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The "event" objects differ according to the browsers. Some properties are not available for all browsers.

- The event that triggered the execution of the code may not be available. Before using this event, we recommend that you check its existence with the following line of code for example:
	
	```wl
	IF JSInfoEvent() THEN ...
	```


- **JSInfoEvent** must not be used in WEBDEV processes directly entered in JavaScript: use the **Event** object directly.

- **JSInfoEvent** is not available:

	- in browser procedures.

	- in the events directly or indirectly called from a browser procedure (via [ExecuteProcess](../WDLang1/3013031.md) for example).







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
WDJS.DLL
