


## LooperSave (Function)

***In french: ZoneRépétéeEnregistre***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Validates the modification or addition of the record associated with the current row in the Looper control.. The record is updated in the data file linked to the Looper control.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Save the data of the Looper control "LOOP_ProductLooper" 
LooperSave(LOOP_ProductLooper)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`LooperSave(<Looper control>)`
---

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used. The current row of this Looper control will be recorded in the linked data file.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Looper control to which the current event belongs is used.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Updating the data file linked to the Looper control
<a name="updating_the_data_file_linked_the_looper_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

**LooperSave** saves the current row of the Looper control to the data file. The items are automatically assigned with the values of associated controls in the current row.

When a modification is performed, **LooperSave** replaces the former values by the new ones. The items not found in the Looper control are not modified.

Caution:

- **LooperSave** only supports the data file associated with the Looper control. If some attributes/controls are linked to items found in other data files, these data files are not automatically managed.

- The "Image" attributes/controls are not saved by **LooperSave**. To modify the content of the memo associated with the image (rare case), use [HLinkMemo](../WDLang4/3044173.md). 



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Cascading input and update of linked data file
<a name="cascading_input_and_update_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

If cascading input is enabled, changes are automatically applied in the data file linked to the Looper control when the user moves to the next row [LooperAdd](../WDLang2/3083006.md), [LooperAddLine](../WDLang2/3083004.md), [LooperInsert](../WDLang2/3083003.md), [LooperInsertLine](../WDLang2/3083002.md), [LooperModify](../WDLang2/3083013.md) and [LooperModifyLine](../WDLang2/3083015.md)). **LooperSave** is useless.

If cascading input is not enabled, changes are not applied in the data file linked to the Looper control. To write the added row or the modified row into the linked data file, **LooperSave** must be called after the function used to perform the addition or the modification.

Remarks:

- The [NewLine](../Proprietes/2510073.md) property determines if the row has just been created by [LooperAdd](../WDLang2/3083006.md), [LooperAddLine](../WDLang2/3083004.md), [LooperInsert](../WDLang2/3083003.md) or [LooperInsertLine](../WDLang2/3083002.md) (..New = True).

- The [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property determines if the user has modified a row in the Looper control (..Modified = True).



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Re-displaying the saved row
<a name="redisplaying_the_saved_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000141"></a>

After the call to **LooperSave**, the saved row may "disappear". This "disappearance" is due to the value of the search key for the added or modified record.

To avoid this problem, redisplay the Looper control with [LooperDisplay](../WDLang2/3083001.md).
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Locking and updating the data file
<a name="locking_and_updating_the_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000157"></a>

If the data file is locked in the current process, **LooperSave** saves the current row and unlocks the data file.
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Duplicates and referential integrity
<a name="duplicates_and_referential_integrity_ELTPARAGRAPHE000168"></a>

- If the management of duplicates is enabled ([HSetDuplicates](../WDLang4/3044057.md)), [HErrorDuplicates](../WDLang4/3044077.md) must be checked after the execution of **LooperSave** to check the key uniqueness.

- If the management of referential integrity is enabled ([HSetIntegrity](../WDLang4/3044058.md)), [HErrorIntegrity](../WDLang4/3044086.md) must be checked after the execution of **LooperSave** to check the referential integrity.



<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>


### Use LooperSave to reduce the number of lines of code
<a name="use_docparampagetitleshort_reduce_the_number_lines_code_ELTPARAGRAPHE000194"></a>

**LooperSave** reduces several lines of code. This single line allows you to avoid assigning the item variables one by one.

For example, the following code:

```wl
Customer.LastName = ATT_LastName
Customer.FirstName = ATT_FirstName
Customer.Address = ATT_Address
Customer.ZC = ATT_ZC
Customer.City = ATT_City
HAdd(Customer)
```
is replaced with the following line:

```wl
LooperSave(LOOP_CustomerLooper)
```


<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
