


## LooperSelectPlus (Function)

***In french: ZoneRépétéeSelectPlus***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Selects a row in a Looper control. The selected row corresponds to the current row on which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **LooperSelectPlus** can be used on:

- a Looper control based on a data file or populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection Looper control.









<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Select the row 5 in the "LOOP_Product" Looper control
LooperSelectPlus(LOOP_Product, 5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`LooperSelectPlus(<Looper control> [, <Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Looper control to which the current event belongs is used.

**`<Index 1>: (Optional integer)`**

First index of the row to select. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified Looper control are selected. **LooperSelectPlus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to an already selected row. You can get the index of a selected row with [LooperSelect](../WDLang2/3083024.md).



**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Nth index of the row to select. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified Looper control are selected. **LooperSelectPlus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to an already selected row. You can get the index of a selected row with [LooperSelect](../WDLang2/3083024.md).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### "Select a row" event
<a name="select_row_event_ELTPARAGRAPHE000127"></a>

The "Select a row" event is not run when **LooperSelectPlus** is called.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
