


## LooperPosition (Function)

***In french: ZoneRépétéePosition***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Moves the scrollbar to display a specific row or returns the index of the first row displayed in a Looper control populated programmatically.










<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Index of the first row displayed in "LOOP_Product"
ResPosition = LooperPosition(LOOP_Product)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Displaying a Looper control from a specific row

`LooperPosition(<Looper control> , <Index>)`
---

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Looper control used is the Looper control to which the current event belongs.

**Caution**: No linear Looper control can be used. 

**`<Index>: (Integer)`**

Index of the row that will be displayed at the first position in the Looper control. 
The last row is selected by default if this parameter is greater than the number of rows in the Looper control (returned by [LooperCount](../WDLang2/3083014.md)).  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Getting the index of the first row displayed in a Looper control

`<Result> = LooperPosition(<Looper control>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Index of the first row displayed in the specified Looper control.

**`<Looper control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Looper control to be used.
If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Looper control used is the Looper control to which the current event belongs.  

**Caution**: No linear Looper control can be used.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Selection bar and LooperPosition function
<a name="selection_bar_and_docparampagetitleshort_function_ELTPARAGRAPHE000132"></a>

**LooperPosition** does not change the current row (i.e. the row highlighted by the selection bar).

Therefore, if the Looper control has focus when **LooperPosition** is run, the current row and the specified row must be visible at the same time. If the current row and the specified row cannot be displayed at the same time, the Looper control will be displayed from the current row (and not from the row at &lt;Index&gt;).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Displaying a row at the first position in the Looper control (syntax 1)
<a name="displaying_row_the_first_position_the_looper_control_syntax_1_ELTPARAGRAPHE000149"></a>

The row displayed at the first position may not be the requested row. Indeed, **LooperPosition** tries to display as many rows as possible in the Looper control.

**LooperPosition** will display the specified row only if this row is followed by a sufficient number of non-empty rows.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
