
## WDLog: Restoring a data file from its log
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000095"></a>
WDLog is used to apply to a backup of a data file the different operations saved in the log of this file.

From a backup of a data file, you have the ability to re-apply all the modifications performed on this file (and saved in the log) until a given date.

Regenerating a data file can be performed in interactive mode only. This operation requires:

- The log file associated with the data file (\*JNL.FIC).

- The password of log file (if this password exists).

- The data file onto which the log operations must be performed. If this file does not exist, it can be re-created from the information found in the log.






<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Interactive mode
<a name="interactive_mode_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>


### To regenerate the HFSQL data files
<a name="regenerate_the_hfsql_data_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

1. Start WDLog.

2. Select "File .. Manage the logs" (or click the book).

3. Click the "Restore a file from its log" button.

4. Specify:

	- The log file associated with the data file. 
			The data file will be updated from this log file. This file must be a &lt;FileName&gt;JNL.FIC file.

	- The password associated with the log file (if it exists).

	- The data file onto which the log file must be applied. 
			This file must be the last valid data file that exists. If this file does not exist, WDLog can try to re-create the data file from the log.

	- The directory in which the data file will be created. 
			This directory must be specified and it must differ from the directory containing the backup file.

	- The limit date and time. 
			Date and time until which the operations found in the log file will be re-played on the backup file. The data file will be updated. All the operations found in the log file will be performed if no date and time are specified.




5. Click the "Restore" button to restore the file.





