
## Importing and exporting a server
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000084"></a>
The Hosting Control Center allows you to easily import and export the WEBDEV Application Server configuration. You can move a server or copy its configuration.  

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000108"></a>
**To export the WEBDEV Application Server**: 

1. Start the Hosting Control Center. 

2. In the "Move server" group, select "Export...".

3. In the export wizard, select the accounts to export. Go to the next step. 

4. Select the sites to export, with or without data
	Remark: Exporting a site forces the export of the associated deployment account. Go to the next step. 

5. Select the SOAP Webservices to export, with or without data. Go to the next step. 

6. Select the REST Webservices to export, with or without data. Go to the next step. 

7. Select the WebSocket servers to export, with or without data. Go to the next step. 

8. Specify the specific configurations to be searched and reapplied: registry key permissions, file permissions, IIS configuration. Go to the next step. 

9. Specify the destination "zip" file, make sure all the necessary elements are selected and confirm the export. 





**To import the WEBDEV Application Server**: 

1. Start the Hosting Control Center. 

2. In the "Move server" group, select "Import...".

3. In the import wizard, select the zip configuration file created during the export. 

4. Validate the import. 





