
## Describing the replication (ReplicEdit)
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000120"></a>
ReplicEdit is used to create a replication via a wizard, but the replication description window allows identifying or configuring additional parameters. 

**To edit the description of a replication**, select "Replication .. Replication description". 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## The different options
<a name="the_different_options_ELTTEXTE000144"></a>


### "General" tab
<a name="general_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

The "General" tab presents the following information: 

- Name of the replication, 

- Description of replication

- Replication direction, 

- Management of conflicts. 




This information was entered when creating the replication and it can be modified at any time. 


### "Parameters" tab
<a name="parameters_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000030"></a>

The "Parameters" tab indicates the different parameters expected by the replication. 

These parameters correspond to the filters implemented on the files to replicate. 

It is thus possible to get the order of the parameters used by [ReplicInitialize](../WDLang4/1000017195.md). 


### "Master files" tab
<a name="master_files_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

This tab is used to specify: 

- the home directory of the HFSQL Classic master files, when replicating an HFSQL Classic database. 

- the access mode and the location of the master files for replication. 





### "Advanced" tab
<a name="advanced_tab_ELTPARAGRAPHE000050"></a>

This tab is used to specify advanced replication options: 

- ****: This option automatically determines the order of the replicated files (according to integrity constraints). If this option is not selected, the order is determined by the order defined in the "Parameters" tab. 

- ****: This option is used to take into account the automatic data modification. In this case: 

	- Changes in the structure of the master database will be carried over to the subscriber database.

	- The new items will be taken into account by the replication. 




- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (default value). The automatic data modification performed on the master database is not carried over to the subscriber database.  Caution: this parameter is only available for replication between HFSQL databases (Classic or Client/Server). 





