
## Replication options (ReplicEdit)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
Creating a replication with ReplicEdit allows you to specify several parameters:

- The characteristics of the replication (direction of the replication, management mode of conflicts, ...)

- The different files to replicate (base file, linked files, ...).




**Depending on the type of files to replicate, additional information must be specified in order to perform an automatic assisted universal replication (via ReplicSynchro) or a programmed replication.**

The options of replication are mainly used to specify the location of the master database.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Replicating an HFSQL Classic database
<a name="replicating_hfsql_classic_database_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>
When replicating a HFSQL Classic database, the location of the master files for the replication must be specified in the replication file.

To define the directory of the HFSQL Classic master data files: 

1. Display the description of the replication ("Replication .. Replication description").

2. Select the "Master files" tab. This tab allows you to:

	- Specify the hoe directory for the HFSQL Classic master files via the directory picker.

	- Configure the characteristics of each file. All you have to do is double-click the name of the file: the description window of the file is displayed. In the "General" tab, you have the ability to specify:

		- the physical name of the file. This parameter can correspond to a full path, a relative path (that will be added to the specified base directory) or a file name. If a file name is specified, it will be sought in the specified base directory.

		- the password of the file (if necessary).







**Remark**: This information can also be specified when preparing the setup procedure or during the setup.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Replicating a Client/Server database
<a name="replicating_clientserver_database_ELTTEXTE000181"></a>


### Connections
<a name="connections_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

When replicating a Client/Server application, ReplicEdit is using the connections defined in the analysis. **The password is not initialized for security reasons.**

To specify the password associated with the connections (or to modify the connections), select "Replication .. Description of connections".

To modify the association between a file and a connection:

1. Select "Replication .. Description of data files".

2. Select the desired file and click the search icon.

3. Select the desired connection.




Remarks:

- Automatic assisted universal replication (via ReplicSynchro): These parameters can be modified when preparing the setup.

- Assisted universal replication through programming: Only ReplicEdit can be used to modify these parameters.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Replication item
<a name="replication_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

When replicating a database that uses a native access, a specific DateTime item must be defined in each replicated file. This item will be updated by the application when modifying or adding a record.

To specify the replication item:

1. Select "Replication .. Description of data files".

2. Double-click the relevant file. The description window of the file is displayed.

3. In the "Items" tab, specify the item for record date.




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Select items to be replicated
<a name="select_items_replicated_ELTTEXTE000211"></a>
ReplicEdit also allows you to ignore some items of the data files during the replication.

To avoid replicating all the items:

1. Select "Replication .. Description of data files".

2. Double-click the relevant data file. The description window of the file is displayed.

3. In the "Items" tab, only the checked items will be replicated.





