
## HFSQL Control Center: Creating and executing a query
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000097"></a>
The HFSQL Control Center allows you to create a query based on the data files of the database currently displayed in the Control Center. 

To create a query: 

1. In the ribbon, go to the "SQL query" group, expand "New query" and select "Blank query". 

2. A new tab corresponding to the new query is displayed. 

3. If necessary, select the database on which the query should be made and write the SQL code of the query. 

4. To execute the query, select "Run" in the ribbon. 




Remark: You can also create a query via a wizard. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Query: The ribbon options
<a name="query_the_ribbon_options_ELTTEXTE000121"></a>
The query ribbon includes the following options: 

The "SQL query" group includes the following options: 

- New query: Creates a new query either by writing the SQL code or via the wizard. 

- Open a query: Opens a query from the history, or a previously saved query. 

- Save: Saves the current query. 

- Close query: Closes the current query. 




The "Execution" group includes the following options: 

- Run: Executes the query displayed in the current tab. 

- Suggest keys: Suggests the keys to optimize the performance of the query. 

- Display EXPLAIN: Displays the EXPLAIN statement of the query as an image or in XML format. 




The "Transactions" group includes the following options: 

- Start a transaction: Starts a transaction before executing the query. Once the transaction has started, you can validate it at any time by selecting "Validate transaction". 

- Cancel transaction: Cancels the current transaction if necessary. 




The "Other actions" group includes the following options: 

- Queries history: gets a list of queries made from the HFSQL Control Center, whether or not they were successfully executed. 

- List of SQL keywords: gets the list of keywords that can be used in SQL queries. 





