
## inAppCheckSubscription (Function)

***In french: inAppVérifieAbonnement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
When starting the iOS application, checks whether the In-App subscriptions have been renewed. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Initialization code of project
inAppCheckSubscription(CheckSubscription)
```

```wl
PROCEDURE CheckSubscription(bSuccess is boolean, Product is inAppProduct)
IF NOT bSuccess THEN
	ToastDisplay(ErrorInfo())
	RETURN
ELSE	
	// Call the inAppListPurchase function 
	// to check the start and end dates of subscription
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`inAppCheckSubscription(<WLanguage procedure>)`
---

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Procedure name)`**

Name of WLanguage procedure ("callback" procedure) run if one of the subscriptions was renewed. This procedure has the following format: 

```txt
PROCEDURE <Procedure name>(<Success> is boolean, <Product> is inAppProduct)
```
where: 

- &lt;Success&gt; is boolean: 

	- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the subscription was renewed,

	- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




- &lt;Product&gt; is an [inAppProduct](../WDLang3/1000020868.md) variable corresponding to the product for which the subscription renewal is checked. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Principle and implementation
<a name="principle_and_implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000051"></a>

In iOS, you have the ability to create self-renewable subscriptions for the in-App purchases.

When this type of subscription expires, the subscription is automatically renewed by the AppStore. A new purchase transaction is automatically created and transmitted during the next application start. Therefore, this transaction must be supported by the application to take into account the subscription renewal.

**inAppCheckSubscription** must be called as soon as possible in the event "Initializing" of the project in order to process the subscription renewals. The procedure will be called as many times as the number of subscriptions to renew. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

