


## &lt;Chart&gt;.SaveEMF (Function)

***In french: &lt;Graphe&gt;.SauveEMF***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Saves a chart that was drawn beforehand in a file in EMF format.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Saves the chart named "CHART_MyChart" in the "C:\Charts\Chart.EMF" file
CHART_MyChart.SaveEMF("C:\Charts\Chart.EMF")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Chart control>.SaveEMF(<EMF file name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the chart was saved, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Chart control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Chart control in the window, page or report editor.

**`<EMF file name>: (Character string)`**

Name and full path of the EMF file to create. The file extension is mandatory. This EMF file is created when **&lt;Chart&gt;.SaveEMF** is called. The file is overwritten and re-created if it already existed.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Saving a chart
<a name="saving_chart_ELTPARAGRAPHE000200"></a>

- To save a chart, the chart must have been drawn beforehand ([&lt;Chart&gt;.Draw](../WDLang3/1000024062.md)). The modifications performed since the last call to [&lt;Chart&gt;.Draw](../WDLang3/1000024062.md) will be ignored.

- The default size of the image is set to 639 x 479. These dimensions are taken into account if the chart was never drawn or if it is not visible. 



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Backup in EMF format
<a name="backup_emf_format_ELTPARAGRAPHE000230"></a>

- This file can be read by a tool that recognizes the EMF format.

- The size of the file is identical to the size of the destination (size of window size, control or file).

- We recommend that you preview the chart before it is saved in a file.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Differences between grDestinationEMF and &lt;Chart&gt;.SaveEMF
<a name="differences_between_grdestinationemf_and_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000242"></a>

- [grDestinationEMF](../WDLang3/3042017.md) is used to define the destination for the next drawing of the chart. When [&lt;Chart&gt;.Draw](../WDLang3/1000024062.md) is used, the chart will be drawn in the specified file and all the changes made since the chart was last drawn will be taken into account.

- **&lt;Chart&gt;.SaveEMF** is used to save the chart in a file in EMF format. The image saved corresponds to the chart during the last call to [&lt;Chart&gt;.Draw](../WDLang3/1000024062.md). The changes made to the chart since [&lt;Chart&gt;.Draw](../WDLang3/1000024062.md) was last called will be ignored.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280grf.dll
