
## SaaSAdminClientConnection (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminConnexionClient***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the connection to the database of a client account for a SaaS site.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The SaaS Administrator will have access to all connections. A client account manager will only have access to the connection regarding his own client account. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Open a connection to the database of the "Jet Tames" client for the "CRM" site
ASaaSSite is saasSite
ASaaSClient is saasClient 
AClientDatabase is Connection

ASaaSSite = SaaSAdminFindSite("CRM")
ASaaSClient = SaaSAdminFindClient("Jet Tames")
AClientDatabase = SaaSAdminClientConnection(ASaaSSite, ASaaSClient)

HOpenConnection(AClientDatabase)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Retrieving the connection parameters (via saasxxx variables)

`<Result> = SaaSAdminClientConnection(<SaaS site> , <Client account>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection parameters to the client account database.

**`<SaaS site>: (saasSite variable)`**

Name of the [saasSite](../WDLang3/1000019068.md) variable corresponding to the SaaS site the connection parameters must be retrieved from.

**`<Client account>: (saasClient variable)`**

Name of the [saasClient](../WDLang3/1000019072.md) variable corresponding to the SaaS client account the connection parameters must be retrieved from.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Retrieving the connection parameters

`<Result> = SaaSAdminClientConnection(<Site> , <SaaS client>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string or Connection variable)`**

Connection parameters to the client account database.

**`<Site>: (Character string)`**

Name of the SaaS site whose connection parameters will be retrieved.

**`<SaaS client>: (Character string)`**

Name of the SaaS client account whose connection parameters will be retrieved.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
