
## SaaSCheckService (Function)

***In french: SaaSVérifieService***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Checks the access rights of the user to a service of SaaS site. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF SaaSConnect("login", "password") = True THEN
	IF SaaSCheckService("CRM") = False THEN
		Info("You are not allowed to use the CRM service")
	END
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Checking access rights to a SaaS service

`<Result> = SaaSCheckService([<SaaS service>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the user is allowed to use the specified service, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise (or if no user is connected). [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns the details of the error.




**`<SaaS service>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the SaaS service for which the rights are to be checked. This name was defined in the interface for SaaS management.
If this parameter is not specified, the function returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the user is allowed to use at least one service of the SaaS site.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Checking access rights to a set of SaaS services

`<Result> = SaaSCheckService(<Names of the SaaS services>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array)`**

Array of Boolean variables that indicates if the specified service is available to the user: 

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the user is allowed to use the specified service, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise (or if no user is connected). [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns the details of the error.




**`<Names of the SaaS services>: (Array)`**

Name of the array containing the names of the different SaaS services for which the rights are to be checked. These names are defined in the SaaS administration interface.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Restricted access to the services of a SaaS site
<a name="restricted_access_the_services_saas_site_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

When clients subscribe to a given plan, they acquire licenses to use a service. Then, they provide these licenses to the end users.
Therefore, some users may not have access to a service because the administrator has not activated their license.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280com.dll
