
## NFCSendTag (Function)

***In french: NFCEnvoieTag***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Sends an NFC tag to another device. 

**Remark**: The NFC functions cannot be used in the simulator or in the emulator.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Sends an URL to another device 
tag is nfcTag
url is nfcData
url.Type = nfcURI
url.Content = "www.pcsoft.com"
Add(tag.Data, url)
IF NFCSendTag(tag) = False THEN
	Error("Unable to write NFC tag.", ErrorInfo())
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = NFCSendTag(<Tag>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the sending was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. If an error occurs, the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Tag>: (nfcTag variable)`**

Name of the [nfcTag](../WDLang3/1000020411.md) variable that describes the data to be sent.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

- The NFC tags are sent by the Android Beam feature of the device. This feature must be enabled on the transmitter device and on the receiver device. 
	The Android Beam feature is enabled in the window for configuring the wireless communications. 

- The call to **NFCSendTag** automatically opens a window to prompt the users to hold their devices closer to another NFC-enabled device. This window will be automatically closed: 

	- when the sending is over, 

	- if the user cancels the sending by pressing the Back key of the device.
			Remark: To customize the message displayed in this window, use [NextTitle](../WDLang1/3038043.md) before the call to **NFCSendTag**. 




- On the destination device, the tag sent can be read like a standard NFC tag: 

	- by an application developed with WINDEV Mobile by using [NFCReadTag](../WDLang3/1000020416.md), 

	- by a compatible external application.






<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Reading the NFC sent
<a name="reading_the_nfc_sent_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

For a device to read the NFC tag sent by **NFCSendTag**, it must support: 

- the NDEF Push Protocol (com.android.npp), 

- the SNEP protocol (Simple NDEF Exchange Protocol). 


If it is running version 4.0 or later, it must support the two protocols.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Required permissions 
<a name="required_permissions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

The call to this function modifies the permissions required by the application. 

Required permissions:  

- NFC: Allows the applications to perform input/output operations via the NFC technology.

- VIBRATE: Used to access the sensor feature.



<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280android.jar
