


## BTLEConnect (Function)

***In french: BTLEConnecte***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to connect to a Bluetooth Low Energy device.

Two syntaxes are available: 

- Syntax 1: Locking connection.

- Syntax 2: Non-locking connection. This syntax is used to connect to a Bluetooth device from its physical address. You can for example connect the application to a device whose physical address was stored during a previous detection (with [BTLEListDevice](../WDLang3/1000021882.md)) as soon as this device is switched on and/or enters in the detection area of device.




**In Windows, this function has no effect**. The system automatically determines whether a connection should be opened or not when a request is made. However, you must use BTLEInitialize to set the [btleDevice](../WDLang3/1000022054.md) type to a valid status. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
myDevice is btleDevice
BTLEConnect(myDevice)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Connecting to a Bluetooth Low Energy device (locking connection)

`<Result> = BTLEConnect(<Device> [, <Timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the connection was established,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns more information on the error.




**`<Device>: (btleDevice variable)`**

Name of the [btleDevice](../WDLang3/1000022054.md) variable that represents the Bluetooth Low Energy device with which the connection will be established. This device was detected by [BTLEListDevice](../WDLang3/1000021882.md).

**`<Timeout>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Connection timeout (in milliseconds). If the connection was not established during this timeout, &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.
If this parameter is not specified, the default connection timeout is set to 5 seconds.
This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Connecting to a Bluetooth Low Energy device (non-locking connection)

`BTLEConnect(<Device> , <WLanguage procedure>)`
---

**`<Device>: (btleDevice variable or character string)`**



- Name of the [btleDevice](../WDLang3/1000022054.md) variable that represents the Bluetooth Low Energy device with which the connection will be established. 

- Identifier of Bluetooth Low Energy device with which the connection will be established (**Identifier** property of [btleDevice](../WDLang3/1000022054.md) type). 
	


There is no need for the device to be accessible during the call: the connection will be established as soon as the device is accessible. The procedure will be called whenever the device is switched on and/or whenever it enters in the detection area of device.

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Procedure name)`**

Name of the WLanguage procedure ("callback" procedure) that will be called when connecting to the Bluetooth Low Energy device.
This procedure has the following format:

```txt
PROCEDURE <Procedure name> (<Device>, <Result>)
```
where: 

- &lt;Device&gt; is a variable of type [btleDevice](../WDLang3/1000022054.md) that corresponds to the connected Bluetooth device.

- &lt;Result&gt; is a boolean variable: 

	- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the connection was established,

	- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns more information on the error.









<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280android.aar
