
## SaaSAdminFindSubscription (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminChercheAbonnement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Finds a SaaS subscription.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The SaaS Administrator will have access to all subscriptions. A manager of client accounts will have access to his own subscriptions. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
S is saasSite 
P is saasPricing 
C is saasClient 
Sub is saasSubscription 

S = SaaSAdminFindSite("Forum")
P = SaaSAdminFindPricing("Promo 2010", S)
C = SaaSAdminFindClient("Hybrid")
Sub = SaaSAdminFindSubscription(P, C)
IF ErrorOccurred = False THEN
	Info("The client has subscribed to this pricing")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding a subscription (via saasxxx variables)

`<Result> = SaaSAdminFindSubscription(<Pricing> , <Client account>)`
---

**`<Result>: (saasSubscription variable)`**

[saasSubscription](../WDLang3/1000019088.md) variable containing the description of sought subscription.

If the search failed, the returned variable is empty.

**`<Pricing>: (saasPricing variable)`**

Name of [saasPricing](../WDLang3/1000019091.md) variable corresponding to the pricing for which the subscription is sought.

**`<Client account>: (saasClient variable)`**

Name of [saasClient](../WDLang3/1000019072.md) variable corresponding to the client account for which the subscription is sought.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding a subscription by using the pricing name

`<Result> = SaaSAdminFindSubscription(<Pricing> , <SaaS site> , <Client account>)`
---

**`<Result>: (saasSubscription variable)`**

[saasSubscription](../WDLang3/1000019088.md) variable containing the description of sought subscription.

If the search failed, the returned variable is empty.

**`<Pricing>: (Character string)`**

Name of pricing for which the subscription is sought.

**`<SaaS site>: (Character string)`**

Name of SaaS site that owns the pricing.

**`<Client account>: (Character string)`**

Name of client account for which the subscription is sought.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
