


## WidgetRunApp (Function)

***In french: WidgetLanceAppli***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Starts the application to which a widget belongs.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Start the Android application on the search window by passing as parameter
// the value you want to find
WidgetRunApp(WIN_Find, "value")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Starting the associated Android application

`<Result> = WidgetRunApp()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the Android application containing the current Widget window was started, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Starting the application while specifying the window to open

`<Result> = WidgetRunApp([<Window name> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the Android application containing the current Widget window was started, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Window name>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the application window to open when starting the application. 

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of value sent to the window (optional))`**

First parameter that will be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by reference and is considered as a global variable to the specified window. 
Remark: Only the simple types can be passed to the window (string, integer, boolean, etc.)



**`<Parameter N>: (Type of value sent to the window (optional))`**

Nth parameter that must be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by reference and is considered as a global variable to the specified window.
 Remark: Only the simple types can be passed to the window (string, integer, boolean, etc.) 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- **WidgetRunApp** can only be used in Widget mode.

- The application will be started in a process different from the one in which the widget is run.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280android.jar
