


## &lt;emailPOP3Session variable&gt;.NbMessage (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable emailSessionPOP3&gt;.NbMessage***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the number of incoming messages on the email server (POP3 protocol).
This number of messages remains constant during the entire email session, even if new emails are received or if emails are deleted by [EmailDeleteMessage](../WDLang3/3032027.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MySession is EmailPOP3Session

nbMSG is int = MySession.NbMessage()
FOR I = 1 TO nbMSG
	EmailReadMessage(MySession, I)
	IF Email.Out <> True THEN
		CU.NAME = Email.Sender
		CU.MESSAGE_TXT = Email.Message
		...
	ELSE
		Info("This message was deleted")
	END
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <POP3 session>.NbMessage()`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Number of messages received on the server at the beginning of current email session,

- -1 if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<POP3 session>: (emailPOP3Session variable)`**

Name of the [emailPOP3Session](../WDLang3/1000018759.md) variable corresponding to the email session to use.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Deleted messages (POP3 protocol)
<a name="deleted_messages_pop3_protocol_ELTPARAGRAPHE000292"></a>

If a message was deleted by [EmailDeleteMessage](../WDLang3/3032027.md):

- **&lt;emailPOP3Session variable&gt;.NbMessage** returns the number of messages on the email server before they are deleted. 

- the message numbers are not re-assigned.




Therefore, if four messages are found on the server at the beginning of session, these messages are numbered from 1 to 4. If message #1 is deleted:

- **&lt;emailPOP3Session variable&gt;.NbMessage** used in the same session always returns 4.

- Message 1 cannot be read by [EmailReadMessage](../WDLang3/3032016.md) because the message does not exist anymore (only messages 2, 3 and 4 exist).




The message numbers are re-assigned during the next connection.
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### New messages (POP3 protocol)
<a name="new_messages_pop3_protocol_ELTPARAGRAPHE000322"></a>

The POP3 protocol cannot be used to find out and manage the new messages received during the connection. To get the new messages, you must disconnect ([&lt;emailPOP3Session variable&gt;.CloseSession](../WDLang3/1000022283.md)) and reconnect ([&lt;emailPOP3Session variable&gt;.StartSession](../WDLang3/1000022305.md)).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
