


## &lt;Email variable&gt;.ImportSource (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable Email&gt;.ImporteSource***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Populates a variable of type [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) using the content of its **Source** property.
Remark: This function can be used to read an .eml file (generated by Outlook Express).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyEmail is Email

// Read the .eml file 
MyEmail.Source = fLoadText("c:\MyEmails\Test.eml") 
IF MyEmail.ImportSource() = True THEN
	Info("The test.eml file was imported")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Email>.ImportSource()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable has been populated,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. If an error occurs, the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 
	To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant. 


The generated code can be read in the **Source** property of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable used.

**`<Email>: (Email variable)`**

Name of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable corresponding to the email to initialize.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- To generate the source code of the email to be send from the **Source** property of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable, use [&lt;Email variable&gt;.BuildSource](../WDLang3/1000022278.md).

- The files in MSG format (generated by MS Outlook) are not automatically imported.

- The source of the email must use the CR separator to mark the end of lines, including in Linux.

- If the project configuration uses ANSI strings at runtime, characters are converted to "latin1" by default, regardless of the "charset" specified in the HTML part of the email. If UNICODE is used at runtime, characters are not converted. To avoid converting to ANSI and keep the encoding of the "charset" specified in the HTML part of the email, use [EmailConfigure](../WDLang3/1000022269.md) with the *emailParameterHTML* constant : 



```wl
EmailConfigure(emailParameterHTML, True)
```


<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
