


## &lt;EmailOutlookSession variable&gt;.Update (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable EmailSessionOutlook&gt;.MiseAJour***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Updates the messages of MS Exchange according to the email server. The following operations are performed:

- The messages found in the out-box of MS Exchange are sent to the Internet email server.

- The messages waiting on the Internet server are transferred into the in-box of the MS Exchange client.




**&lt;EmailOutlookSession variable&gt;.Update** can only be used with the MS Exchange client.

**Reminder**: To handle the emails, an email session must be started by [&lt;EmailOutlookSession variable&gt;.StartSession](../WDLang3/1000022302.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Start the session
SessionID is EmailOutlookSession
...
// Retrieve the messages in the in-box of MS Exchange
IF SessionID.Update() = True THEN
	Info("Messages retrieved")
ELSE
	Error()
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Session>.Update()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the update was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. If an error occurs, the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Session>: (emailOutlookSession variable)`**

Name of the [emailOutlookSession](../WDLang3/1000018767.md) variable used to identify the session.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Error while transmitting the email
<a name="error_while_transmitting_the_email_ELTPARAGRAPHE000218"></a>

If a message was not transmitted because of a bad Internet connection or because of an invalid address, the message is returned to the MS Exchange client: the message is displayed in the unread messages.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280com.dll.
