
## NotesOpenConnection (Function)

***In french: NotesOuvreConnexion***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Establishes a connection to a Domino server. This session can be closed by [CloseSession](../WDLang3/3032124.md) or [EmailCloseSession](../WDLang3/3032006.md).

**Remarks**:

- To access the emails, contacts, groups of contacts, tasks and/or appointments managed by Lotus Notes, you must specify the Lotus Notes database to use (second syntax of [EmailStartNotesSession](../WDLang3/3032121.md)).

- To access the documents managed by Lotus Notes, you must specify the Lotus Notes database to use ([NotesOpenDatabase](../WDLang3/1000005101.md)).



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Open the connection
SessionID is int
SessionID = NotesOpenConnection("Password", "MarsServer", ...
		"C:\Users\Julia\AppData\Local\Lotus\Notes\Data\user.id")
// Specify the Lotus Notes database to use
IF NotesOpenDatabase(SessionID, "email/julia.nsf") <> 0 THEN
	Info("Session started and database specified")
ELSE
	Error(ErrorInfo())
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = NotesOpenConnection(<Password> , <Domino server> [, <Certificate path>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Session identifier. 

- 0 if an error occurs (or <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>). To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Password>: (Character string)`**

User password. This password is given by the service provider or by the network administrator.

**`<Domino server>: (Character string)`**



- Name of Domino server,

- Empty string ("") if the database is a local database.




**`<Certificate path>: (Optional character string)`**

Path of the certificate used to identify the user (ID file). This file is given by the administrator of the Domino server. This file is required to establish the connection to the server.
If this parameter is not specified, the path of the certificate will be read in the configuration file of the Lotus Notes client ("Notes.INI" file). The certificate used will correspond to the last certificate of the user of the Lotus Notes client for the current computer.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The access to Lotus Notes is available for Lotus Notes version 6.5 or later.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
