


## ModbusConnectTCP (Function)

***In french: ModbusConnecteTCP***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Connects a client to a Modbus server via transmission control protocol (TCP).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Create a session and connect to the Modbus server at address 192.168.1.18 on port 3275.
Session is modbusSession
Session = ModbusConnectTCP("192.168.1.18",3275)

// If the connection fails, display the error
IF ErrorOccurred = True THEN
	Trace(ErrorInfo())
ELSE
	// Write a value to register 0x42 on the server.
	ModbusWriteRegister(Session, 0x42,0xCAFE)
END

// Disconnect server
ModbusDisconnect(Session)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Session> = ModbusConnectTCP(<Address> [, <Port> [, <Slave ID> [, <Connection timeout>]]])`
---

**`<Session>: (modbusSession variable)`**

[modbusSession](../WDLang3/1000025924.md) variable used to communicate with the Modbus server.

**`<Address>: (Character string)`**

Modbus server address. This address can correspond to: 

- an IPv4 or IPv6 address,

- a domain name (e.g., "modbusserver.com").




**`<Port>: (Optional integer)`**

Port number to be used for the TCP connection. 
By default, this parameter is set to 502, the standard port for Modbus TCP.

**`<Slave ID>: (Optional integer)`**

Number between 0 and 255 that indicates which slave to connect to if it is behind a gateway (e.g., a Modbus TCP to Modbus RTU gateway). 
By default, this parameter is set to 255 (broadcast address).

**`<Connection timeout>: (Optional integer)`**

Timeout for connecting to the Modbus server, expressed in milliseconds. This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 20s or 10 ms). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- After calling **ModbusConnectTCP**, it is recommended to check the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable to make sure there are no errors.

- **ModbusConnectTCP** blocks the application until a connection is established or the connection timeout is exceeded.

- The slave identifier is in the [modbusSession](../WDLang3/1000025924.md) variable. If an operation is to be performed on several different slaves, you can change the slave identifier in the [modbusSession](../WDLang3/1000025924.md) variable to avoid reopening the session. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280com.dll
