


## In-App purchases
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000235"></a>
The mobile systems (Android/iOS) allow their applications to propose content at extra cost, by using the payment system of App Store or Google Play.

This process is used to create for example: 

- applications with extensions at extra cost.

- applications proposing products at extra cost (e-books, etc.).

- applications proposing a subscription to content or to services.




This help page describes the mechanisms used in WINDEV Mobile to enable the management of content at extra cost ("In-App" purchase) in your applications.   

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Principle
<a name="principle_ELTTEXTE000259"></a>
The steps for performing an "In-App" purchase in an Android or iOS application are as follows: 

1. The application asks the store for information about the available products. To do so, it gives the identifiers of products to the store. These identifiers have been entered in iTunesConnect for iOS and in the Google Play developer console for Android. 

2. The store returns (in asynchronous way) this information in list format. 

3. The application displays this list to the user. 

4. The user chooses a product to purchase. 

5. The application transmits the request for purchase to the store. 

6. The store sends (in asynchronous way) a response indicating whether the transaction was performed.

7. The application activates the purchase.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTTEXTE000295"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


