


## MapLimitArea (Function)

***In french: CarteLimiteZone***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Limits the geographic area displayed in the Map control.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
p1 is geoPosition
p1.Latitude = 0
p1.Longitude = 0
p2 is geoPosition
p2.Latitude = 3
p2.Longitude = 3
MapLimitArea(MAP_MyMap, p1, p2)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Defining the geographic area

`<Result> = MapLimitArea(<Map control> , <North West position> , <South East position>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the the limits of the displayable area have been set, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Map control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Map control to be used. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Map control to which the current event belongs will be used.

**`<North West position>: (geoPosition variable)`**

Name of the [geoPosition](../WDLang3/1000019191.md) variable that corresponds to the North West point of the area displayed in the Map control.

**`<South East position>: (geoPosition variable)`**

Name of the [geoPosition](../WDLang3/1000019191.md) variable that corresponds to the South East point of the area displayed in the Map control. 


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Deleting the geographic area

`<Result> = MapLimitArea(<Map control>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the the limits of the displayable area have been removed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Map control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Map control to be used. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Map control to which the current event belongs will be used.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- Depending on the zoom level, the Map control can display an area larger than the specified area, but the center of the map will always be within the area specified as parameter.

- When **MapLimitArea** is called, the map displayed in the Map control will automatically be positioned on the specified area.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
