


## EmailImportSource (Function)

***In french: EmailImporteSource***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Populates a variable of type [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) using the content of its **Source** property or the different variables of the [Email](../WDLang3/3032029.md) structure using the content of the **Email.Source** variable.
Remark: This function can be used to read an .eml file (generated by Outlook Express).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Read the .eml file 
Email.Source = fLoadText("c:\MyEmails\Test.eml") 
IF EmailImportSource() = True THEN
	Info("The test.eml file was imported")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = EmailImportSource([<Email>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable or the [Email](../WDLang3/3032029.md) structure has been populated,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. If an error occurs, the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 
	To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant. 


The generated code can be read in the Email.Source variable of the current thread or in the **Source** property of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable used.

**`<Email>: (Optional Email variable)`**

Name of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable that corresponds to the email to be initialized. If this parameter is not specified, the [Email](../WDLang3/3032029.md) structure will be used. 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- To generate the source code of the email to be sent from the email structure (the content of the Email.Source variable) or from the **Source** property of the [Email](../WDLang3/1000018713.md) variable, use [EmailBuildSource](../WDLang3/1000017225.md).

- The files in MSG format (generated by MS Outlook) are not automatically imported.

- The source of the email must use the CR separator to mark the end of lines, including in Linux.

- If the project configuration uses ANSI strings at runtime, characters are converted to "latin1" by default, regardless of the "charset" specified in the HTML part of the email. If UNICODE is used at runtime, characters are not converted. To avoid converting to ANSI and keep the encoding of the "charset" specified in the HTML part of the email, use [EmailConfigure](../WDLang3/1000022269.md) with the *emailParameterHTML* constant : 
	
	```wl
	EmailConfigure(emailParameterHTML, True)
	```





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
