
## SaaSAdminListClientSubscription (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminListeAbonnementClient***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Lists the SaaS subscriptions of a client account.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The SaaS Administrator will have access to all subscriptions. A manager of client accounts will have access to his own subscriptions. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Displays the subscriptions of a client in a Table control (linked to an Array variable)
arrSub is array of saasSubscription 
arrSub = SaaSAdminListClientSubscription(EDT_ClientName)
SourceToScreen()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Listing the SaaS subscriptions of a client account (via the saasxxxx variables)

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListClientSubscription(<Client account> [, <SaaS site>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasSubscription variables)`**

List of subscriptions.

**`<Client account>: (saasClient variable)`**

Name of the [saasClient](../WDLang3/1000019072.md) variable that corresponds to the SaaS client account for which the subscriptions are to be found.

**`<SaaS site>: (Optional saasSite variable)`**

Name of the [saasSite](../WDLang3/1000019068.md) variable containing the description of the SaaS site to use. If this parameter is specified, only the subscriptions to the specified SaaS site will be listed ; otherwise, all the subscriptions of client account will be listed.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Listing the subscriptions of a client account identified by its name

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListClientSubscription(<Client account> [, <SaaS site>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasSubscription variables)`**

List of subscriptions.

**`<Client account>: (Character string)`**

Name of SaaS client account for which the subscriptions are sought.

**`<SaaS site>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of SaaS site to use. If this parameter is specified, only the subscriptions to the specified SaaS site will be listed ; otherwise, all the subscriptions of client account will be listed.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
