


## BrightnessAuto (Function)

***In french: LuminositéAuto***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns or modifies the activation status of the automatic adjustment of the brightness on the device.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Enables the automatic adjustment of brightness on the device
BrightnessAuto(True)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Enabling (or not) the automatic adjustment of the brightness

`BrightnessAuto(<Automatic mode>)`
---

**`<Automatic mode>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to enable the automatic adjustment of the brightness, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to disable the automatic adjustment of the brightness.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out the activation status of the automatic adjustment of the brightness

`<Result> = BrightnessAuto()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the automatic adjustment of the brightness is enabled, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the automatic adjustment of brightness is disabled.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

- If the device is not equipped with a light sensor, enabling the automatic brightness adjustment has no effect.

- The modification of the brightness affects the setting of the device. Therefore, the new brightness is global to all the applications and it will be stored when the application is closed.

- To find out the value of the current setting for the brightness of the screen, use [BrightnessGet](../WDLang3/1000019810.md).

- To modify the value of the current setting for the brightness of the screen, use [BrightnessModify](../WDLang3/1000020170.md).





### Required permissions
<a name="required_permissions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

The call to this function modifies the permissions required by the application. 
Required permission : WRITE_SETTINGS
This permission allows the application to write the system parameters.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280android.jar
