
## SaaSAdminListService (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminListeService***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Lists the SaaS services associated with a SaaS site, a pricing or a user.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The SaaS administrator will have access to all services. A manager of client accounts will have access to the services of sites for which he has a subscription. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Number of services for the CRM site
CRMSite is saasSite
arrSvc is array of saasSite

CRMSite.Name = "CRM"
arrSvc = SaaSAdminListService(CRMSite)

Trace("The CRM site includes " + arrSvc.Occurrence + " services")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out the services of a SaaS site

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListService(<SaaS site>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasService variables)`**

List of services proposed by the site.

**`<SaaS site>: (saasSite variable or character string)`**

SaaS site for which the services will be sought: 

- Name of the [saasSite](../WDLang3/1000019068.md) variable corresponding to the site.

- String corresponding to the name of the SaaS site.  





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out the services proposed by a SaaS pricing

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListService(<Pricing>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasService variables)`**

List of services accessible by the pricing.

**`<Pricing>: (saasPricing variable)`**

Name of the [saasPricing](../WDLang3/1000019091.md) variable corresponding to the SaaS pricing for which the services will be sought.


<a name="SYNTAX3"></a>

### Finding out the services of a SaaS site proposed by a SaaS pricing

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListService(<Pricing> , <SaaS site>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasService variables)`**

List of services accessible by the pricing for the requested site.

**`<Pricing>: (Character string)`**

Name of SaaS pricing for which the services will be listed.

**`<SaaS site>: (Character string)`**

Name of SaaS site for which the services will be listed.

**Remark**: The pricing must belong to the site.


<a name="SYNTAX4"></a>

### Finding out the services of a SaaS site to which a user has subscribed

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListService(<SaaS user> [, <SaaS site> [, <With Duplicates>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasService variables)`**

List of services proposed for the user.

**`<SaaS user>: (saasUser variable)`**

Name of [saasUser](../WDLang3/1000019083.md) variable corresponding to the SaaS user for which the services will be sought.

**`<SaaS site>: (Optional saasSite variable or character string)`**

SaaS site for which the services will be sought: 

- Name of the [saasSite](../WDLang3/1000019068.md) variable corresponding to the site.

- String corresponding to the name of the SaaS site.  


If this parameter is not specified, the services are sought for all sites. 

**`<With Duplicates>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> (default value) if the result can contain duplicates, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to remove duplicates from the result. 










<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280com.dll
