


## &lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.ManageCookie (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable httpRequête&gt;.GèreCookie***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the management of cookies in an HTTP request run by [&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.Send](../WDLang3/1000021624.md). 




<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Enabling/Disabling the management of cookies (HTTPSend)

`<HTTP request>.ManageCookie([<Domain>, ] <Activation>)`
---

**`<HTTP request>: (httpRequest variable)`**

Name of [httpRequest](../WDLang3/1000021158.md) variable for which the management of cookies will be enabled or disabled.

**`<Domain>: (Character string)`**

Domain onto which the activation or the deactivation is applied.

**`<Activation>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to enable the management of cookies,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to disable the management of cookies.
	Even if the management of cookies is disabled, you still have the ability to pass cookies in the HTTP request by using the appropriate header in the [httpRequest](../WDLang3/1000021158.md) variable.





<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The cookies are not kept between two runs of an executable. They must be saved and restored through programming:

	- backup: [&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.GetCookie](../WDLang3/1000021627.md), [Serialize](../WDLang1/3013065.md) and [fSaveText](../WDLang1/3036046.md)

	- restore: [&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.ReplaceCookie](../WDLang3/1000021623.md), [Deserialize](../WDLang1/3013066.md) and [fLoadText](../WDLang1/3036006.md).




- [HTTPGetResult](../WDLang3/3043001.md) ignores **&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.ManageCookie**.

- When cookies are enabled, the cookies received in response to a call to [&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.Send](../WDLang3/1000021624.md) are kept while waiting for a later call to [&lt;httpRequest variable&gt;.Send](../WDLang3/1000021624.md) on the same domain: the [httpRequest](../WDLang3/1000021158.md) variable is updated.  This operating mode is similar to the one of the Internet browsers.

- The use of cookies is required on some sites that use them to supply the identifiers. Then, these identifiers are transmitted to each request (a basket identifier when placing an order for example).

- If a management is defined on a domain, this information has priority over the global option.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
