
## AndroidActivityResultProcedure (Function)

***In french: AndroidActivityResultProcédure***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows you to specify the procedure to be called to get the result returned by a third-party Activity.

**Remark**: In a WINDEV Mobile application, you can use external libraries and APIs. In Android, some libraries and APIs open specific windows, known as "Activities", which perform specific processes: payment with mobile devices, toggle Bluetooth visibility, OAuth login, etc.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
AndroidActivityResultProcedure((resultCode, requestCode, Uri, extras)=>{
	IF resultCode = -1 _AND_ requestCode = 1024 THEN
		FOR EACH ELEMENT value OF extras 
			...
		END
	END
})
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`AndroidActivityResultProcedure([<WLanguage procedure>])`
---

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Optional procedure name)`**

Name of the WLanguage procedure ("callback") called when the application needs to get the result returned by a third-party activity. 
For more details on this procedure, see [Parameters of the procedure used by AndroidActivityResultProcedure](../WDLang3/1410088882.md).
If this parameter is not specified, the procedure call will be canceled for the current window.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- This function can be used to get the result of an activity started by a call to the **startActivityForResult** method from an external library. 

- **AndroidActivityResultProcedure** is linked to the life cycle of the window from which it was executed. When the window is closed, the procedure will be automatically canceled. You can also call the function without passing the &lt;Procedure&gt; parameter to force this cancellation.

- An error will occur if the function is called when no window is running.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280android.aar
