
## LDAPRenameAttribute (Function)

***In french: LDAPRenommeAttribut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Renames an attribute. The value of attributes is stored during this operation.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// "AttributeName" is renamed to "Name2"
LDAPStartModify("SessionName")
LDAPRenameAttribute("SessionName", "AttributeName", "Name2")
LDAPValidateModify("SessionName", "DN")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = LDAPRenameAttribute(<LDAP session> , <Former attribute name> , <New attribute name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the modification was performed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns more details about the error. 


The modification will be performed during the call to [LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md).

**`<LDAP session>: (Character string)`**

Name of LDAP session used.

**`<Former attribute name>: (Character string)`**

Current name of attribute to use.

**`<New attribute name>: (Character string)`**

New name of attribute to use.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Rename
<a name="rename_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

The new name of the attribute must be a valid attribute for the modified object.

If the rename operation concerns a multi-valued attribute, the new name must correspond to a valid and multi-valued attribute. Otherwise, an error will occur when using [LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md).
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Modifying an existing object on an LDAP server
<a name="modifying_existing_object_ldap_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000066"></a>

To modify an existing object in an LDAP server, you must define the different modifications to perform.

To optimize the modification speed of objects, the modifications are defined locally: a single communication is established with the server when validating the modification. The steps are:

1. Start modification ([LDAPStartModify](../WDLang3/3032112.md)).

2. Modification operations:

	- Add attributes and their values [LDAPAddAttribute](../WDLang3/3032110.md)).

	- Delete attributes ([LDAPDeleteAttribute](../WDLang3/3032115.md)) or their values ([LDAPDeleteAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032116.md)).

	- Replace values of an attribute ([LDAPReplaceAttribute](../WDLang3/3032113.md) or [LDAPReplaceAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032119.md)).

	- Rename attributes (**LDAPRenameAttribute**)




3. Validate the modifications on the server ([LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md)). The modifications are performed on the server according to the order used in the WLanguage code.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
