


## Configuring the "fax server" computer
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000287"></a>
WINDEV and WEBDEV allow you to manage faxes via the system fax server, available in Windows (2000, XP and later).

You can:

- [send faxes](../WDLang3/3037002.md).

- [handle the incoming and outgoing faxes](../WDLang3/3037017.md). 




This help page presents the configuration of the fax server required to perform these operations.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the "fax server" computer
<a name="configuring_the_fax_server_computer_ELTTEXTE000311"></a>


### Configuring the current computer
<a name="configuring_the_current_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000029"></a>

The following elements are required to send faxes:

- Windows XP, 2000 or Vista (Vista Professional or Vista Full Version)

- a modem configured on the computer (server in WEBDEV)

- the standard Windows fax service must be started (on the server for WEBDEV)




**Remark**: the fax server can be a computer other than the current computer. In this case, the fax server must be installed on a "Server 2003" computer and shared.

**1. Check the configuration of modem**

Open the control panel of Windows ("Start .. Settings .. Control panel") and select "Phone and modem options". Check whether a modem is installed on the computer.

**2. Install a standard fax server**

Windows XP, 2000 and Vista are supplied with a fax server.

To install this fax server in Windows XP or 2000:

- Select "Add/Remove Programs" in the control panel of Windows ("Start .. Settings .. Control Panel").

- Select "Add/Remove Windows components".




To install this fax server in Windows Vista:

- Select "Programs and features" in the control panel of Windows ("Start .. Settings .. Control Panel").

- Select "Enable or disable Windows features", then "Windows fax and digitization".




**3. Check whether the standard fax service of Windows is in incoming mode**

For more details, see the paragraphs below. 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuring the fax server in Windows 2000
<a name="configuring_the_fax_server_windows_2000_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

In Windows 2000, the fax server is called "Fax Service".

To configure the fax server:

1. Open the control panel of Windows ("Start .. Settings .. Control panel").

2. Double-click "Fax service". If this option is not displayed, install the fax server of Windows 2000 (see above).

3. Select the "Advanced options" tab and click the "Open the console for managing the fax service" button.

4. The "Device" option lists the modems and faxes installed on the computer.

5. Double-click your modem/fax.

6. In the "General" tab, enable the feature allowing you to send faxes from a WINDEV application or from a WEBDEV site.

7. Validate.


Remark: To create a cover file (.cov), select the "Cover page" tab. 
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Configuring the fax server in Windows XP
<a name="configuring_the_fax_server_windows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

To configure the fax server: 

1. Select "Start .. Printers and Faxes".

2. Double-click the "Fax" option. The wizard for fax configuration starts.

3. Select "Tools .. Configuration".

4. Validate the default parameters until you reach the "Configuration for receiving and sending faxes" plane.

5. Enable the feature allowing you to send faxes from a WINDEV application.

6. Validate. The fax server is started.


Remark: To create a cover file (.Cov), select "Tools .. Personal cover page".
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Configuring the fax server in Windows Vista
<a name="configuring_the_fax_server_windows_vista_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

To configure the fax server: 

1. Select "Start .. All programs .. Windows fax and digitization". The wizard for fax configuration starts.  

2. At the bottom of the left pane, select "Fax service".

3. Select "Tools .. Fax accounts" and click the "Add" button.

4. In the wizard, follow the different steps in order to connect to a fax modem.

5. To enable the feature for sending faxes, select "Tools .. Fax settings" and check "Allow this device to send faxes".

6. Validate. The fax server is started.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Configuring the fax server through programming
<a name="configuring_the_fax_server_through_programming_ELTTEXTE000353"></a>


### Options of fax server
<a name="options_fax_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

The standard fax server of Windows proposes several options that can be configured directly from the interface of the fax server. These different options can be configured through programming via the registry. You have the ability to configure and find out:

- information regarding the sending of faxes (Windows 2000): 
	The corresponding registry key is HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Fax:
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| Number of attempts | Retries |
| Number of minutes between two attempts | Retry Delay |
| Number of days before deleting the unsent faxes | Dirty Days |
| Archive the outgoing faxes | ArchiveOutgoingFax |
| Directory of outgoing faxes | ArchiveDirectory |
| Print the top header | Branding |
| Forbid the custom cover pages | ServerCoverPageOnly |
| Time when the economy rate starts | StartCheapTime |
| Time when the economy rate ends | StopCheapTime |



- information regarding the sender of the fax (Windows 2000): 
	The corresponding registry key is HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Fax\\UserInfo:
	


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| Number of the fax sender | FaxNumber |
| Mailbox address | Mailbox |
| Company | Company |
| Title | Title |
| Full name | FullName |
| Department | Department |
| Business address | Office |
| Home phone | HomePhone |
| Business phone | OfficePhone |
| Displays the status monitor when sending AND receiving faxes | VisualNotification |
| Status monitor always on the top | AlwaysOnTop |
| Sound notification | SoundNotification |
| Billing code | BillingCode |





<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Tips
<a name="tips_ELTPARAGRAPHE000221"></a>

To create a fax server and to manage the redial of faxes, the following options must be specified in the fax manager:

- No retry for sending faxes: 
	
	```wl
	RegistrySetValue("HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Fax","Retries",0)
	```


- Timeout set to 0 mn between two attempts: 
	
	```wl
	RegistrySetValue("HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Fax","Retry Delay",0)
	```


- 0 day for keeping the unsent faxes: 
	
	```wl
	RegistrySetValue("HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Fax","Dirty Days",0)
	```





It is possible to consider that a fax whose status changed from ***FaxStatusInit*** OR ***FaxStatusCall*** to ***FaxStatusInactive*** was attempted to be sent once. Then, this fax can be re-sent (it will not be automatically re-sent because "No retry for sending faxes" is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>). 


