


## grPrint (Function)

***In french: grImprime***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Prints a chart. The chart is printed:

- across the page width, 

- inside a rectangular area (invisible during the print).




**Remark**: The print will be performed on the default printer of the current computer. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Print a chart created through programming
grPrint("MyChart")
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// Print a Chart control
grPrint(CHART_MyChart)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Printing a chart across the page width

`grPrint(<Chart name>)`
---

**`<Chart name>: (Control name or character string)`**

Name of the chart to print. This name corresponds to:

- the chart name defined through programming with [grCreate](../WDLang3/3042005.md).

- the name of the Chart control in the window editor.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Printing a chart inside a rectangle

`grPrint(<Chart name> , <X1> , <Y1> , <X2> , <Y2>)`
---

**`<Chart name>: (Control name or character string)`**

Name of the chart to print. This name corresponds to:

- the chart name defined through programming with [grCreate](../WDLang3/3042005.md).

- the name of Chart control found in the window editor. 




**`<X1>: (Real)`**

X-coordinate of the upper-left corner of the rectangle containing the chart. The origin (0,0) is located in the upper-left corner of the sheet. It takes the physical margins of the printer into account.

**`<Y1>: (Real)`**

Y-coordinate of the upper left corner of the rectangle containing the chart. The origin (0,0) is located in the upper-left corner of the sheet. It takes the physical margins of the printer into account.

**`<X2>: (Real)`**

X-coordinate (in millimeters) of the lower-right corner of the rectangle containing the chart. The origin (0,0) is located in the upper-left corner of the sheet. It takes the physical margins of the printer into account.

**`<Y2>: (Real)`**

Y-coordinate (in millimeters) of the lower right corner of the rectangle containing the chart. The origin (0,0) is located in the upper-left corner of the sheet. It takes the physical margins of printer into account.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If the chart is printed in a rectangle, the chart will be automatically adjusted inside the rectangle according to its size on the screen. The chart displayed on the screen corresponds to a print preview.

- The print margins are ignored ([iMargin](../WDLang5/3046011.md)).

- A chart can be printed from a popup menu.




- A chart can be printed without being displayed on the screen. In these conditions, the chart will have the same appearance as if it were displayed in a window of size 800\*600. The window dimensions can be configured by initializing the coordinates with [grWndSize](../WDLang3/3042016.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280grf.dll
