
## J2EEAddHeader (Function)

***In french: J2EEAjouteEntête***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a header to the next procedure that will be run on the server. This header contains an additional parameter. This parameter is used to check a specific information on the server (type of security for example).

**Remark**: This procedure will be run by [J2EERun](../WDLang3/3047007.md) or [J2EERunXML](../WDLang3/3047008.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add a header to the next J2EE procedure run
// This header is used to check the security level
// used by the server
// If the maximum security level is not used, the next
// J2EE procedure will not be run
J2EEAddHeader("Security", "MaxSecurity", "Security-Level", True)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`J2EEAddHeader(<Parameter name> , <Parameter value> , <Parameter namespace> [, <Procedure execution>])`
---

**`<Parameter name>: (Character string)`**

Name of additional parameter. This additional parameter is used to check an information specific to the server. This parameter is supplied in the documentation of server of J2EE XML Web services.
The name of the parameter is case sensitive.

**`<Parameter value>: (Any type)`**

Value of additional parameter. The possible values are supplied in the documentation of the server of J2EE XML Web services

**`<Parameter namespace>: (Character string)`**

Namespace of parameter. This parameter is supplied in the documentation of server of J2EE XML Web services

**`<Procedure execution>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>: the procedure must not be run if the header cannot be processed by the server (mandatory header).

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>: the header is ignored by the execution of the procedure (optional header).  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Executing the procedure 
<a name="executing_the_procedure_ELTPARAGRAPHE000055"></a>

You have the ability to run (or not) the next procedure by adding a header. To do so, &lt;Procedure execution&gt; must be initialized to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.

If &lt;Procedure execution&gt; is initialized to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>:

- [J2EERun](../WDLang3/3047007.md) (or [J2EERunXML](../WDLang3/3047008.md)) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the connection with the server has been established, <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.

- If the connection with the server was established and if the server fulfills the conditions requested by the header, the procedure is run.

- If the procedure was run, [J2EEGetResult](../WDLang3/3047003.md) returns:

	- the result of the procedure if the procedure was successfully run, 

	- an empty string ("") if the procedure failed.




- If the procedure failed or if it was not run, [J2EEError](../WDLang3/3047010.md) returns:

	- the "MustUnderstand" error code if the server does not fulfill the conditions requested by the header, 

	- an error in the other cases.







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
