
## Client application: Running procedures on a server of J2EE services
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
WINDEV includes several J2EE functions. These functions allow you to manage the execution of procedures on a server of J2EE XML Web services from your WINDEV applications.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Principle
<a name="principle_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
The parameters required to run a procedure are specified in the documentation about the server of J2EE XML Web services.

To run a procedure on a server of J2EE XML Web services:

1. Initialize the structure of parameters for the procedure to run ([J2EE structure](../WDLang3/3047006.md)).
	Remark: To perform additional checks on the server of J2EE XML Web services, add a procedure header ([J2EEAddHeader](../WDLang3/3047001.md)).

2. Run the procedure ([J2EERun](../WDLang3/3047007.md) or [J2EERunXML](../WDLang3/3047008.md)). The following operations are automatically performed:

	- connecting the current computer and the server of J2EE XML Web services.

	- sending procedure parameters to the server of J2EE XML Web services.

	- checking the header if necessary.

	- running the procedure.

	- returning the procedure result or error to the current computer.




3. Check the procedure result.




The result of [J2EERun](../WDLang3/3047007.md) or [J2EERunXML](../WDLang3/3047008.md) is used to find out whether the connection was successfully established.

If the connection was not established, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) to find out the cause of the error. 
If the connection was established, check the result of [J2EEGetResult](../WDLang3/3047003.md):

- if the result is not an empty string (""), the procedure was successfully run.

- if the result is an empty string (""), the procedure was not run and/or an error was returned. To find out the procedure error, use [J2EEError](../WDLang3/3047010.md).





