
## OLECreateEmpty (Function)

***In french: OLECréeVide***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Associates an OLE control with an OLE object by invoking a specific OLE server. To perform this operation, **OLECreateEmpty** starts the requested OLE server. The current document is a new document. The new document can be edited and created on the server. When leaving the server started with **OLECreateEmpty**, the created object is automatically drawn in the OLE control of the WINDEV window. **This function is used to create a new object.**

**Remark**: Depending on the server that created the OLE object, the object can be displayed in the control as:

- its bitmap representation (example of image created with Paint Brush),

- its vector representation (example of worksheet created by Excel),

- the icon representing the server (icon created by WinWord),

- text.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Starts Paint Brush on an empty document
OLECreateEmpty(OLE_OLE1, "PBrush")
// Process
// Save
OLESave(OLE_OLE1, "OBJECT.OLE")
// Retrieves the server to start
Choice is string
Sub is int = ListSelect(LIST_OLESERV)
Choice = LIST_OLESERV[Sub] + TAB
Choice = ExtractString(Choice, 2)
OLECreateEmpty(OLE_OLE1, Choice)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = OLECreateEmpty(<OLE control> , <Server name> [, <Locks>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the function was run,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<OLE control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the OLE control that will receive the new OLE object. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the control to which the current event belongs. If the control contained an OLE object, this object is replaced by the new object.

**`<Server name>: (Character string)`**

Official name of the OLE server that will provide the OLE object. The list of available servers is returned by [ OLEServer](../WDLang3/3057010.md) or by checking the OLE database with REGEDIT of Windows.

**`<Locks>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> (default value): Locking server.
	The window containing the OLE control cannot be in edit as long as the user has not exited from the server.

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>: Non-locking server.
	The user can perform inputs in the window containing the OLE control while the server is still started. Used to play a verb with [OLEPlay](../WDLang3/3057009.md).






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
Only OLE version 1 is supported.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280ole.dll
