
## OLEPlay (Function)

***In french: OLEJoue***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Allows:

- retrieve the list of available operations (other than edit) from a server, 

- perform an operation. In this case, the server must have been started by [OLEActivate](../WDLang3/3057008.md), [OLECreateCopy](../WDLang3/3057005.md) or [OLECreateEmpty](../WDLang3/3057001.md) with &lt;Lock&gt; set to <u><u><u>False</u></u></u>. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Creates an object form a .WAV file
OLECreateCopy(OLE_OLE1, "C:\Windows\tada.wav", False)
// Plays the .WAV
OLEPlay(OLE_OLE1, "&Playing")
ListAdd(LIST_List1, OLEPlay(OLE_OLE1))
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Running a specific action on an object

`<Result> = OLEPlay(<OLE control> , <Action to run>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the action was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<OLE control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the OLE control associated with the OLE object. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the control to which the current event belongs.

**`<Action to run>: (Character string)`**

Text of the action (verb) to run. Indicates the requested process to the server. This information is required in order to allow the OLE client to process the linked object without knowing the structure of the data incorporated in the OLE object.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Retrieving the list of actions recognized by an OLE server

`<Result> = OLEPlay(<OLE control>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

List of actions (verbs) recognized by the OLE server in the following format: 

```txt
<Verb1> + CR + <Verb2> + CR + ... + CR + <Verb N>
```
These verbs correspond to menu choices and they usually contain a '&' character indicating the shortcut. This character must not be deleted when **OLEPlay** is called.

**`<OLE control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the OLE control associated with the OLE object. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the control to which the current event belongs.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Allowed operations
<a name="allowed_operations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

Some OLE servers allow their clients to perform operations other than edit on the objects. For example, the sound recorder of Windows (SOUNDREC.EXE) can also be used to read an object (.WAV or.MID.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000080"></a>

Only OLE version 1 is supported.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280ole.dll
