
## Installing a SOAP server with Apache
			






	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>20</B></B>, this feature is not available anymore. For more details, see [Importing/Consuming Webservices](../WDLang3/3086001.md)



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Installing a SOAP server with Apache
<a name="installing_soap_server_with_apache_ELTTEXTE000142"></a>


### To install the SOAP server for Apache (the Apache 1.3.x, Apache 2.0.x or Apache 2.2.x server must be installed on the computer):
<a name="install_the_soap_server_for_apache_the_apache_13x_apache_20x_apache_22x_server_must_installed_the_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

1. Open the "httpd.conf" file in the Windows notepad. This file is located in the conf subdirectory of the Apache setup. If you have chosen the default setup directory, this directory corresponds to: C:\\Program Files\\Apache Group\\Apache\\conf.

2. Find the section regarding the support of shared objects. To do so, find:

	- the following line: "# Dynamic Shared Object (DSO) Support"

	- the "LoadModule" keyword.




3. Add the following line to install the final soap server:

	- Apache 1.3.x: 
			LoadModule windev_module &lt;Setup directory of wdxxxapa.dll&gt;/wdxxxsapa.dll

	- Apache 2.0.x: 
			LoadModule windev_module &lt;Setup directory of wdxxxapa2.dll&gt;/wdxxxsapa2.dll

	- Apache 2.2.x: 
			LoadModule windev_module &lt;Setup directory of wdxxxsapa22.DLL&gt;/wdxxxsapa22.dll


 **Remarks**:

- If the specified directory contains space characters, the path must be enclosed in quotes ("Path with spaces").

- This line must not start with the # sign.

- Caution: The names of files and directories are case sensitive (uppercase/lowercase characters).

4. Find the section regarding the "handlers" of requests. To do so, find:

	- the line "# AddHandler allows you to map certain file extensions to "handlers", 

	- the "AddHandler" keyword.




5. Add the following line: AddHandler windev-module .soap
	**Remarks**:

	- This line must not start with the # sign.

	- Use a different extension if the ".soap" extension is already associated with a module on your server. In this case, this new extension must be specified in the functions used to specify the URL of the SOAP server (&lt;URL of SOAP Server&gt; in [SOAPRun](../WDLang3/3069013.md) for example).

	- Check whether the soap extension is defined with the same case as in Internet Explorer. Apache is case sensitive.

	- Check whether the access path to wdxxxsapa.dll, wdxxxsapa2.dll or wdxxxsapa22.dll uses the "Apache/Linux" notation, which means for example: C:/MySOAPExe/wdxxxsapa.dll




6. Find the following line:
	
	```txt
	# [WHENEVER YOU CHANGE THE LOADMODULE SECTION ABOVE, UPDATE THIS SECTION TOO!]
	ClearModuleList
	```


7. Add the line: AddModule InterfaceApache.cpp

8. **If you want to install a standard SOAP server**, the setup of the server is completed. You can stop and restart the Apache server in order to apply the modifications.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing a Webservice
<a name="installing_webservice_ELTTEXTE000166"></a>


### If you want to install a Webservice
<a name="you_want_install_webservice_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

**9.** Find the section about the default directory of the files in the "httpd.conf" file. To do so, find the "documentroot" keyword.

**10.** Copy the following files into the directory specified after the "documentroot" keyword:

- the XML file containing the Webservice description, 

- the HTML pages presenting the Webservice.




To access this XML file, use the following command line: 

```txt
"http://<Name or IP Address of Soap Server>/<Name of XML File>.XML"
```


To run the test of this Webservice, use the following command line: 

```txt
"http://<NAme or IP Address of Soap Server>/index.htm"
```


**Remark**: This XML file can also be copied into another directory. For more details, see the documentation about the HTTP server used.

**11.** The Webservice is now installed on the SOAP server.


