
## Binding a WEBDEV slider to an item
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Item characteristics
<a name="item_characteristics_ELTTEXTE000124"></a>
A WEBDEV slider can be bound to an item in a data file, query, etc.

**For a linear slider**, the item contains the value defined by the slider cursor. 

The characteristics of the item are as follows:

- the item is an **Integer**.

- the item contains the value of the slider cursor position. This position corresponds to the slider value.

- the item value must be between the minimum and maximum value of the slider.




**For a range slider**, two items are bound to the control: 

- an item containing the value of the main cursor (lower value). 

- an item containing the secondary value (upper value). 




The characteristics of the items are as follows:

- the items are **Integers**. 

- the items contain the values of the slider cursors. These values correspond to the minimum and maximum values of the slider.

- the value of each item must be between the minimum and maximum value of the slider.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Handling the item and the slider
<a name="handling_the_item_and_the_slider_ELTTEXTE000148"></a>


### Updating the Slider control with the value from the item
<a name="updating_the_slider_control_with_the_value_from_the_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

**1st case: the controls in the page are bound to items in a data file**
All the controls bound to an item in the data file (or a related file) will be updated by [FileToPage](../WDLang4/3044148.md).

**2nd case: the controls in the page are not bound to items in a data file**
A value must be assigned to each control using the following syntax:

- Linear Slider control: 
	
	```txt
	<Slider control> = <Data file>.<Item>
	```


- Range Slider control: 
	
	```txt
	<Slider control>.LowerValue = <Data file>.<Item1>
	<Slider control>.UpperValue = <Data file>.<Item2>
	```




<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Updating the item with the data from the Slider control
<a name="updating_the_item_with_the_data_from_the_slider_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

**1st case: the controls in the page are bound to items in a data file**
All the items in the data file (or a related file) that are bound to a control in the page will be updated by [PageToFile](../WDLang4/3044022.md).

**2nd case: the controls in the page are not bound to items in a data file**
The value of each control must be assigned to each item using the following syntax:

- Linear Slider control: 
	
	```txt
	<Data file>.<Item> = <Slider control>
	```


- Range Slider control:
	
	```txt
	<Data file>.<Item1> = <Slider control>.LowerValue
	<Data file>.<Item2> = <Slider control>.UpperValue
	```






