


## The Web Camera control
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the Web Camera control
<a name="overview_the_web_camera_control_ELTTEXTE000104"></a>


### Page control
<a name="page_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000011"></a>

The Web Camera control is used to view a file that is refreshed at regular time intervals. This file can correspond to an image broadcasted by a "web camera" for example.


### Creating the control
<a name="creating_the_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000016"></a>

To create a Web Camera control:

1. On the "Creation" tab, in the "Usual controls" group, expand "Image" and select "Web Camera".

2. Click where you want to create the control in the page. The control appears in the editor.


To view the characteristics of the control, select "Description" in the context menu.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTTEXTE000134"></a>


### Retrieving an image broadcasted by a "Web camera"
<a name="retrieving_image_broadcasted_web_camera_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

To retrieve an image broadcasted by a "Web camera" control:

1. **On the computer linked to the "web camera"**: configure the recording of the image broadcasted by a "web camera" (name of the file, rate of refresh, "web camera" used, ...). This setting can be performed:

	- by the software supplied with the "web camera".

	- by the "WD WebCam.exe" application available from the [PC SOFT](https://www.windev.com/ts/download/index.html) site (download page, "Other software" paragraph).
			The image file must be accessible from any computer that uses the WEBDEV site.
			**Remark**: The source code of "WD WebCam" is available in the examples provided with WINDEV.




2. **On the development computer**: specify the image file linked to the Web Camera control ("General" tab in the control description window). 





