
## Information displayed in a multi-cell status bar
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000109"></a>
When describing a status bar in the window editor, you have the ability to specify the type of information that will be displayed in each cell of status bar.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Type of cell in the status bar
<a name="type_cell_the_status_bar_ELTTEXTE000133"></a>
You have the ability to display:

- The progress bar displayed by [ProgressBar](../WDLang1/3021008.md).

- The help message associated with the control with focus (help message defined in the "Help" tab of control or through programming with [Message](../WDLang1/3021006.md)).

- The date of the current computer

- The time of the current computer

- The cursor position in the current edit control ("Column and row of caret").

- The status of Shift key, indicating whether the Caps Lock key is enabled or not.

- The status of Ins key, indicating whether the Ins key is enabled or not.

- The name of the current user in an application that uses the User Groupware.




Two specific options are also available:

- **Through programming**: The information displayed in the status bar is specified programmatically (using [Message](../WDLang1/3021006.md), for example).

- **Update event**: The "Whenever updating" event is automatically associated with the cell of the status bar. This event is run on a regular basis. This event can contain the elements that will be displayed in the cell, for example.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Characteristics of a cell in a status bar
<a name="characteristics_cell_status_bar_ELTTEXTE000157"></a>
The status bar description window also allows you to define the display characteristics of the cells: 

- The position of the cell in the status bar.

- The background image of the cell.

- The background color of the cell.

- The width of the cell.

- Whether the cell is editable.

- The anchors of the cell (its behavior when the window is resized).




All these characteristics can be handled through programming via the [properties available for the cells of the status bars.](../WDChamp/1010035.md)


