
## Printing a report on one of the printers connected to the Web Server
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000165"></a>
To print a report on one of the printers connected to the Web server, you must:

- configure the Web server. This configuration depends on the type of printers used (local or network).

- specify the printer to use.

- print the report.




**Remark**: This type of print is recommended for the Intranet sites only.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000189"></a>


### Configuring the Web server for the local printers (IIS Web servers only)
<a name="configuring_the_web_server_for_the_local_printers_iis_web_servers_only_ELTPARAGRAPHE000024"></a>

To configure the Web server for the local printers (IIS Web servers only): 

1. In IIS, use a local account (IUSR) for the anonymous connections. This IUSR account corresponds to the "Internet guest" account and it belongs to the "Guest" group. 
	To get the IUSR account of the current Web server, see [How to identify the account that runs the AWP protocol](../Editeurs/2037001.md).

2. Check whether the printers used by this IUSR account are allowed to print ("Security" tab of printer properties).




**Remark**: No specific configuration is required for the other types of Web servers.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Configuring the Web server for the network printers
<a name="configuring_the_web_server_for_the_network_printers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

To configure the Web server for the network printers: 

1. Depending on the type of Web server used:

	- **In IIS**, use a domain account for anonymous connections. This account must belong to the "Domain guest" group. 
			To get the domain account of the current Web server, see [How to identify the domain account that runs the AWP protocol](../Editeurs/2037001.md).

	- **For Apache**, use an account of the domain. 
			To get the domain account of the current Web server, see [How to identify the domain account that runs the AWP protocol](../Editeurs/2037001.md).




2. Make sure the domain account is allowed to write to the Regedt32 registry:

	- Start Regedt32 ("Start .. Run .. Regedt32" from the Windows desktop).

	- Select the "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\PC SOFT\\WEBDEV\\28.0" key.

	- Select "Security .. Rights". Check whether the domain account has the rights to create registry keys ("Total control").




3. Check whether the printers can be accessed by the Web server.

4. Check whether the printers used by the domain account are allowed to print ("Security" tab of printer properties).



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Selecting the printer
<a name="selecting_the_printer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000072"></a>

To select the printer:

- use [iConfigure](../WDLang5/3046072.md). 
	**Remark**: [iListPrinter](../WDLang5/3046063.md) returns the list of local printers installed on the current computer.

- specify the printer that will be used by default in the WEBDEV administrator ("Configure the prints" button, "Configuration" tab).



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Printing the report
<a name="printing_the_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000090"></a>

To print a report, use [iPrintReport](../WDLang5/3046032.md).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Example
<a name="example_ELTTEXTE000231"></a>
The "RPT_ReportName" report must be printed on a local or network printer.

The "LIST_PrinterList" control lists the local and network printers accessible from the Web server.

The "BTN_PrintReport" button is used to:

- configure the printer to use.

- print the report.




In this example:

- the initialization code of the "LIST_PrinterList" control is as follows:
	
	```wl
	// Add the network printers
	ListAdd(MySelf, "\\Server1\HP 750") 
	ListAdd(MySelf, "\\Server2\Canon LBP-1000") 
	// Add the local printers 
	ListAdd(MySelf, iListPrinter())
	```


- the server click code of the "BTN_PrintReport" button is as follows:
	
	```wl
	// Select the printer used
	iConfigure(LIST_PrinterList[LIST_PrinterList]) 
	// Print the report
	iPrintReport(RPT_ReportName) 
	// If no printer is selected, 
	// the print will be performed on the printer selected 
	// in the WEBDEV administrator
	```






