


## End of Document block
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000197"></a>
The *End of document* block is run once at the end of the report execution. In most cases, the *End of document* block contains the counters and/or the totals (generated when creating the document or added afterwards).

In the event associated with this type of block, you can display, for example, a warning window to indicate that the printing has ended.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the End of Document block
<a name="creating_the_end_document_block_ELTTEXTE000221"></a>
To create an 'End of Document' block: 

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor:

	- on the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks".

	- select "Add a block" from the popup menu of the report (right mouse click on the report currently created).

	- click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select the "End of document" type.




**Remark**: For more details on the different options available on this type of block, see [Describing the report blocks](../WDChamp/1011049.md).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Printing the End of Document block
<a name="printing_the_end_document_block_ELTTEXTE000245"></a>


### Printing the End of Document block before or after the Page Footer block
<a name="printing_the_end_document_block_before_after_the_page_footer_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

To print the End of Document block after the Page Footer block on the last page of the report:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "End of document" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "Print the "End of document" block AFTER the "Page footer" block on the last page".




- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "AFTER the "Page footer" block ".






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### End of Document block stuck to Page Footer block
<a name="end_document_block_stuck_page_footer_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

By default, the **End of document** block is stuck to the *Body* block or to the *Body complement* block if it exists. You can force the *End of document* block to be stuck to the *Page footer* block.

To stick the End of Document block to the Page Footer block:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "The "End of document" block is together with the "Page footer" block". 
			The *End of document* block will be printed just before or just after the *Page footer* block.




- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "Together with the "Page footer" block". 
			The *End of document* block will be printed just before or just after the *Page footer* block.






<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### End of Document block instead of Page Footer block on the last page of the report
<a name="end_document_block_instead_page_footer_block_the_last_page_the_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000113"></a>

By default, the *Page footer* block is printed on each page (including the last page of the report). The report editor allows you to replace the *Page footer* block by the **End of  document** block on the last report page.
To replace the Page Footer block by the End of Document block on the last report page:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "Print the "End of document" block INSTEAD OF the "Page footer" block on the last page". 




- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "INSTEAD OF the "Page footer" block".







In this case:

- the *End of document* block will replace the *Page footer* block on the last page of the report.

- the option "The "End of document" block is together with the "Page footer" block" will be ignored on the last page of the report.

- the option "The "Page footer" block is not printed at the bottom of the page, it is kept together with the previous blocks" will be taken into account for the *End of document* block on the last page of the report.


**Remark**: In this case, to avoid any overlay problem, the *End of document* block and the *Page footer* block must have the same height.


