


## Page Footer block
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000249"></a>
The **Page footer** block is one of the blocks found in a report created with the report editor. The **Page footer** block is run at the end of each page.

The **Page footer** block contains information that must be printed at the bottom of each page, counters and/or totals generated when creating the document or added thereafter, or the number of the current page in relation to the total number of pages for example.

Caution: The self-stretchability of controls is not managed in the "Page footer" block. 



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the Page Footer block
<a name="creating_the_page_footer_block_ELTTEXTE000273"></a>
To create a Page Footer block:

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor:

	- on the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks". 

	- select "Add a block" from the popup menu of the report (right mouse click on the report currently created).

	- click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select the "Page footer" type.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Printing the Page Footer block
<a name="printing_the_page_footer_block_ELTTEXTE000297"></a>


### Printing the Page Footer block before or after the End of Document block
<a name="printing_the_page_footer_block_before_after_the_end_document_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

By default, the *Page footer* block is printed after the *End of document* block on the last page of the report. The report editor allows you to modify this default print order.

To print the Page Footer block before the End of Document block on the last page:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "Print the "End of document" block AFTER the "Page footer" block on the last page".




- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "AFTER the "Page footer" block ".






<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Page Footer block stuck to the previous blocks
<a name="page_footer_block_stuck_the_previous_blocks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

By default, the * Page footer* block is printed at the bottom of each page. The report editor allows you to modify this default operating mode.

To avoid printing the Page Footer block at the bottom of each page:

1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

2. Check "The "Page footer" block is not printed at the bottom of the page, it is kept together with the previous blocks". 
	The *Page footer* block will not necessarily be printed at the bottom of each page. The *Page footer* block may be followed by an empty space.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>




### End of Document block stuck to Page Footer block
<a name="end_document_block_stuck_page_footer_block_ELTPARAGRAPHE000101"></a>

By default, the *End of document* block is stuck to the *Body* block or to the *Body complement* block if it exists. You can force the *End of document* block to be stuck to the *Page footer* block.

To stick the End of Document block to the Page Footer block:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "The "End of document" block is together with the "Page footer" block". 
			The *End of document* block will be printed just before or just after the *Page footer* block.







- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "Together with the "Page footer" block". 
			The *End of document* block will be printed just before or just after the *Page footer* block.






<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### End of Document block instead of Page Footer block on the last page of the report
<a name="end_document_block_instead_page_footer_block_the_last_page_the_report_ELTPARAGRAPHE000132"></a>

By default, the *Page footer* block is printed on each page (including the last page of the report). The report editor allows you to replace the *Page footer* block by the **End of document** block on the last report page.

To replace the Page Footer block by the End of Document block on the last report page:

- Method 1: 

	1. Display the "General" tab in the description window of the "Page footer" block ("Block description" from the popup menu).

	2. Check "Print the "End of document" block INSTEAD OF the "Page footer" block on the last page". 




- Method 2: 

	1. Display the "Blocks" tab in the description window of the report ("Report description" from the popup menu).

	2. In the "End of document" section, check "INSTEAD OF the "Page footer" block". 







In this case:

- the *End of document* block will replace the *Page footer* block on the last page of the report.

- the option "The "End of document" block is together with the "Page footer" block" will be ignored on the last page of the report.

- the option "The "Page footer" block is not printed at the bottom of the page, it is kept together with the previous blocks" will be taken into account for the *End of document* block on the last page of the report.




**Remark**: To avoid the overlay effects, the *End of document* block and the *Page footer* block must have the same height.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Visibility of the Page Footer block
<a name="visibility_the_page_footer_block_ELTTEXTE000339"></a>
By default, the * Page footer* block is visible on all the report pages. The report editor allows you to specify the report pages on which the *Page footer* block must be displayed.

To specify the pages on which the Page Footer block must be displayed:

1. Open the "UI" tab in the block description window ("Block description" in the popup menu).

2. Specify the visibility of the block:

	- **Always visible**: The block and its controls will be displayed on all the pages of the report.

	- **Always invisible**: The block and its controls will not be displayed in the report.

	- **Visible on the first page only**: The block and its controls will be displayed on the first page of the report.

	- **Invisible on the first page only**: The block and its controls will be displayed on all the pages of the report except for the first one.






<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Keep space for the Page Footer block when it is invisible
<a name="keep_space_for_the_page_footer_block_when_invisible_ELTPARAGRAPHE000191"></a>

By default, the space occupied by the Page Footer block will always be kept in the report pages (no matter whether the block is visible or not). The report editor allows you to modify this default operating mode.

To avoid keeping space for the Page Footer block when it is invisible:

1. Open the "UI" tab in the block description window ("Block description" in the popup menu).

2. Uncheck "Keep space for the page footer when it is invisible.". The space occupied by the Page Footer block will be kept only in the pages where the block is visible. This option is used to optimize the method for filling the report pages.





