


## Start of Break block (Break header)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>
The **Start of break** block is optional in the reports created with the report editor. It is created if a break is requested on a sort argument. The *End of break* block necessarily exists if this block exists.

This block is run whenever the value of the sort argument changes, before the first iteration of the *Body* block for a new value of the sort argument.

**Remark**: The *Start and End of break* blocks cannot be dissociated. However, you can hide one of these blocks if it must not be displayed (in the block description window or via the [Visible](../Proprietes/2510138.md) property). For more details on the different options available on this type of block, see [Describing the report blocks](../WDChamp/1011049.md).



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating the Start of Break block (Break header)
<a name="creating_the_start_break_block_break_header_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
To create a Start of Break block: 

1. Perform one of the following operations in the report editor:

	- on the "Creation" tab, in the "Structure" group, expand "Blocks".

	- select "Add a block" from the popup menu of the report (right mouse click on the report currently created).

	- click the "Add a block" button in the "Blocks" tab of the report description.




2. Select "Break".

3. Select the item linked to the break currently created. A break will be created for each new value of this item.
	Remark: To create a programmed break, select "No item". For more details, see [Break in a report](../WDChamp/1011028.md).




**Reminder**: The *Start and End of break* blocks are automatically created as soon as a a break is added into the report. For more details, see [Break in a report](../WDChamp/1011028.md).


