
## Page contexts
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000126"></a>
In a Windows application, the information relative to a window is kept with the window.

In a dynamic WEBDEV site, a page context exists on the server for each page displayed on the browser of Web user. 

The page context contains all the information related to the page:

- content of controls,

- local variables,

- global variables,

- WLanguage "server" code, etc.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>


### Automatic management
<a name="automatic_management_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

By default, WEBDEV automatically manages the contexts of dynamic pages:

- A page context is opened when the dynamic page is displayed in the browser.

- The context of a page is updated according to the information the user enters in the browser. The context is updated when the user validates the page (via a "Submit" button or with [PageSubmit](../WDLang2/3058020.md)).

- The existing page contexts are closed when using [PageUse](../WDLang2/3058016.md) or [FramesetUse](../WDLang2/3058012.md). Then, the page contexts corresponding to the pages to display are opened.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Advanced management
<a name="advanced_management_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

WEBDEV allows you to perform an advanced management of contexts via the ContextXXX functions.

You can:

- open the page context without displaying it on the browser ([ContextOpen](../WDLang2/3058004.md)), 

- check the existence of a page context on the server ([ContextExist](../WDLang2/3058002.md)), 

- close the context of an unused page ([ContextClose](../WDLang2/3058003.md)).




This advanced management of page contexts can be used to:

- Save memory on the server (by closing the contexts of pages previously opened but unused for example).

- Prepare the pages intended to communicate with other applications (the page receiving information back from a site for secure payment for example).

- Use the pages from other pages.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Special case
<a name="special_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

When using the browser "Back" button, a desynchronization may occur between the page and its context. For more details, see [Managing the browser "Back" button.](../WDChamp/1012001.md)


