


## Options for generating the HTML pages
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000089"></a>
The options for generating the HTML pages in a WEBDEV project can be defined:

- in the "Advanced" tab of the project description (on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description"). The generation options are taken into account for all the pages of the project.

- when describing the pages ("Description" in the context menu of the page in the editor, Advanced" tab). The selected generation options will be taken into account for the current page only.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## HTML code generation options
<a name="html_code_generation_options_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>
You have the ability to generate:

- an HTML code compatible with all the existing browsers.

- an HTML code optimized for the recent browsers. In this case, the "Advanced" button is used to specify the different optimizations that can be performed.


**Remark**: Some optimizations are not selected by default because they can trigger some modifications in the existing WLanguage code. We advise you to run the test of the application after each type of optimization performed.

WEBDEV gives you the ability to generate a second set of pages that are "Compatible with all browsers". In this case, all the project pages will be automatically generated twice. The second set of pages is prefixed by the "_" character.

WEBDEV also allows you to encode HTML pages using UTF-8.


