


## Preventing the use of the browser's "Back" button
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000146"></a>
If the browser "Back" button is used to display the previous page, this action will have no effect.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTTEXTE000170"></a>
Disabling the "Previous page" feature of the browser inserts the following JavaScript code into the generated HTML page:


```txt
<SCRIPT LANGUAGE="JavaScript">
history.forward()
</SCRIPT>
```
When running the page in a browser, it will not be possible to go back to this page by using the "Back" button.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000026"></a>

- This action will have no effect.

- Clicking the browser "Back" button can make the page blink.

- This mechanism can fail if the browser [STOP] button is clicked before the forward() statement is run by the browser.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTTEXTE000200"></a>


### Disabling the browser "Back" button for a specific page
<a name="disabling_the_browser_back_button_for_specific_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

To disable the browser "Back" button for a specific page: 

1. Open the "UI" tab of the page description window ( "Description" option in the page popup menu).

2. In the "Options" area, for the option "Browser "Back" button", select "Forbidden".

3. Validate.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Disabling the browser "Back" button for a frameset
<a name="disabling_the_browser_back_button_for_frameset_ELTPARAGRAPHE000058"></a>

To disable the browser "Back" button for a frameset: 

1. Open the "UI" tab of the frameset description window ( "Description" option in the frame popup menu).

2. In the "Options" area, for the option "Browser "Back" button", select "Forbidden".

3. Validate.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Disabling the browser "Back" button for all the project pages
<a name="disabling_the_browser_back_button_for_all_the_project_pages_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

To disable the browser "Back" button for all project pages: 

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. In the "Advanced" tab, for the option "Default option for the browser "Back" button", check "Forbidden".

3. Validate. This option will be automatically taken into account for all new site pages.





