
## W3C standardization
			






	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>17</B></B>, all the pages generated by WEBDEV comply with the W3C standard. Therefore, this help page is obsolete from this version: the operations presented in this page are available from the versions earlier than version 17.  



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000112"></a>
You must comply with the W3C standard (HTML 4.01) in your WEBDEV projects? WEBDEV gives you the ability to generate an HTML code that complies with the W3C standard.

The pages generated by WEBDEV can be sent to the validation service of the W3C standard ([http://validator.w3.org](http://validator.w3.org)). To do so, save the pages of your site before sending them.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>


### Generating HTML pages that comply with the W3C standard
<a name="generating_html_pages_that_comply_with_the_w3c_standard_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

To generate HTML pages that comply with the W3C standard:

1. Display the project description ("Project .. Project description").

2. In the "Advanced" tab, click the "Advanced..." button: the list of options for generating the HTML code is displayed.

3. Select "Respect the transitional W3C standard".

4. Regenerate the pages of your site.




**Remark**: To get a display corresponding to the W3C standard on all the browsers, you must supply the DTD file corresponding to the W3C standard ("Include the reference to the DTD file"). However, this option can be unchecked if display problems occur.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Applying the W3C standard to a page
<a name="applying_the_w3c_standard_page_ELTPARAGRAPHE000041"></a>

For a page to comply with the W3C standard:

1. Open the page in the editor.

2. Open the page description.

3. In the "Advanced" tab, select "Custom" and click the [...] button.

4. Select "Respect the transitional W3C standard".

5. Validate.




This option will be taken into account during the next generation of the page.
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Limitations
<a name="limitations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000062"></a>

- A page with the W3C option may not pass the W3C validation if this page contains an internal page that does not have the W3C option.

- A page with the W3C and "Include the reference to the DTD file" options may not be displayed properly if this page contains an internal page that do not have the W3C and "Include the reference to the DTD file" options. If a page contains internal pages of external components for which you don't know whether they have been generated with the W3C and "Include the reference to the DTD file" options and if the page is not displayed properly, uncheck "Include the reference to the DTD file" for the page.





