


## How to avoid displaying the URL of WEBDEV pages in the browser? 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000101"></a>
Be default, when the user connects to a site developed with WEBDEV (dynamic site in session mode), the browser address bar contains an address in the following format:  

- Short URL: www.mydomain.com/MyApp

- or complete URL if the web server does not accept a short URL: www.mydomain.com/WD280AWP/WD280AWP.exe/CONNECT/MyApp




This address can easily be hidden from the user by encapsulating it in an iFrame of a static page.

**Remarks**: 

- This feature only affects standard dynamic sites in session mode. This feature does not affect AWP sites, PHP sites or static sites.

- For AWP sites, the name of the WEBDEV Application Server can be hidden in the page URL via the [URL Rewriting](../Editeurs/2030054.md).




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## How to?
<a name="how_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>


### Principle
<a name="principle_ELTPARAGRAPHE000035"></a>

To display an unchanged URL when using a WEBDEV site, simply display the site in the iFrame of a static page. The address displayed in the browser is the address of the static page and the WEBDEV site is displayed in an iFrame.
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Implementation
<a name="implementation_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

The static frameset that will host the dynamic site in session mode can be created:

- by any editor.

- by WEBDEV. In this case, it is recommend to use a project other than the dynamic project in session mode to display.




Example of HTML code for the static frameset to create:


```html
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<title>Site title</title>
<iframe src="/sitetostart" name="MySite" style="border:0;overflow:auto;width:100%;height:100%;
position:absolute;top:0;left:0;"></iframe>
</html>
```
In most cases, this HTML page will be the page defined by default for the Web server (IIS, Apache, etc.)

Contact your Internet service administrator to redirect the http://www.mydomain.com address to this page.


