


## Looper controls populated programmatically: Operations in WLanguage (prefix syntax)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000101"></a>
Here is an overview of how to handle Looper controls populated programmatically in WLanguage. There are multiple WLanguage functions to handle this type of control.

Do not hesitate to see the documentation about these functions. For more details, see [Looper control management functions](../WDLang2/1000023945.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Initializing a Looper control populated programmatically
<a name="initializing_looper_control_populated_programmatically_ELTTEXTE000132"></a>
Rows are not automatically created in a Looper control. This must be specified by calling:

- [&lt;Looper&gt;.Add](../WDLang2/1000023469.md) or [&lt;Looper&gt;.AddLine](../WDLang2/1000023475.md).

- [&lt;Looper&gt;.Insert](../WDLang2/1000023509.md) or [&lt;Looper&gt;.InsertLine](../WDLang2/1000023511.md).




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Adding rows in a Looper control populated programmatically
<a name="adding_rows_looper_control_populated_programmatically_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>
Rows can be added in a Looper control populated programmatically:

- with [&lt;Looper&gt;.AddLine](../WDLang2/1000023475.md) and [&lt;Looper&gt;.InsertLine](../WDLang2/1000023511.md): in each row, the value of each attribute or control is separated by commas.

- with [&lt;Looper&gt;.Add](../WDLang2/1000023469.md) and [&lt;Looper&gt;.Insert](../WDLang2/1000023509.md): in a row, each attribute value or control value is separated by TAB.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Remark
<a name="remark_ELTPARAGRAPHE000233"></a>

To make the code easier to read, you can use the following method:

1. Add an empty row.

2. Assign each attribute or control one by one.


An error automatically occurs when deleting an attribute or a control. However, the display time may be longer.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Selecting a row
<a name="selecting_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000248"></a>

A row cannot be selected.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Modifying the attributes or controls of a row
<a name="modifying_the_attributes_controls_row_ELTTEXTE000253"></a>


### Modifying all the attributes or controls of a row
<a name="modifying_all_the_attributes_controls_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000276"></a>

To edit the attributes or controls of a specific row, use [&lt;Looper&gt;.Modify](../WDLang2/1000023512.md) or [&lt;Looper&gt;.ModifyLine](../WDLang2/1000023520.md) and specify the index of the row to be modified.

For example:

```wl
// Modify the row #3
LOOP_Looper1.Modify("Highlander" + TAB + "103min" + TAB + "Unknown" + ...
		TAB + "C. Lambert" + TAB + "" + TAB + "RO120", 3)
```


To edit the attributes or controls of the current row, there is no need to specify the index.
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Modifying an attribute or a control
<a name="modifying_attribute_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000306"></a>

To modify an attribute or a control, specify the name of the attribute or control to modify.

- Modifying the attribute or control of a specific row: The row index must be specified.

- Modifying an attribute or control in the current row: There is no need to specify the index.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Deleting a row
<a name="deleting_row_ELTTEXTE000314"></a>
The deletion of a row must be explicitly requested by [&lt;Looper&gt;.Delete](../WDLang2/1000023701.md). The following syntax is used:

```txt
<Looper control>.Delete([Index])
```


If the index is specified, [&lt;Looper&gt;.Delete](../WDLang2/1000023701.md) deletes the row that corresponds to that index. Otherwise, the current row is deleted. For example:

```wl
LOOP_CUSTOMER.Delete()
```
Deleting a row in a Looper control also deletes all the values of the attributes or controls for that row.


