
## Characteristics of a toolbar
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000110"></a>
The main characteristics of a "Toolbar" control are configured in the "Details" tab and in the "UI" tab of the description window of control.

The "General" tab is used to find out and define the controls found in the toolbar. 

The "UI" tab is used to define:

- the initial status of the toolbar.

- the parameters regarding the size and position of the controls in the toolbar.




The "Details" tab is used to define: 

- the authorized positions for the toolbar.

- the spacing between the controls found in the toolbar.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Authorized positions for the toolbar
<a name="authorized_positions_for_the_toolbar_ELTTEXTE000134"></a>
WINDEV enables you to select the different positions that the user will be able to use for the toolbar at run time.

This toolbar can be:

- anchored to one of the window sides.

- floating, the toolbar will be an independent window.




This information is specified in the "Details" tab of the description window of control. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Parameters regarding the size and position of the toolbar
<a name="parameters_regarding_the_size_and_position_the_toolbar_ELTTEXTE000158"></a>
Several parameters are used to configure the operating mode of the Toolbar control. These parameters are defined in the "UI" tab of the description window of the control:

- **Shifts the window controls automatically**: This options enables you to shift the controls found in the window when the position of the toolbar changes. If this option is not selected, some window controls may be hidden according to the position of the toolbar.

- **Resizes automatically**: This option enables you to automatically adapt the size of the toolbar to its content (when the toolbar controls are made visible or invisible by programming for instance).

- **Saves size and position**: This option is used to store the size and position of the toolbar when the associated window is closed. During the next window opening, the toolbar will be displayed with this size and position.





