


## The indexed controls
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview of the indexed control
<a name="overview_the_indexed_control_ELTTEXTE000114"></a>
A control is an indexed control if it contains several controls with the same name. Each control has the same name but a different index. This index allows you to easily handle the desired control programmatically.

**Remark**: The indexed controls are used to easily manage the Array text items defined in the data model editor.

Which controls can be indexed? Edit controls and columns in Table controls (numeric, text, currency, date and time).

**Caution**:

- All indexed columns must be in the same Table control.

- The indexed controls can only be used in the window editor. The indexed controls cannot be used in the report editor.




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Creating an indexed control
<a name="creating_indexed_control_ELTTEXTE000138"></a>


### Create an indexed edit control
<a name="create_indexed_edit_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

To create an indexed edit control.

1. Create a new Edit control. 

2. Give it the name of an existing edit control. The controls are indexed.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### To create an indexed column
<a name="create_indexed_column_ELTPARAGRAPHE000037"></a>

All you have to do is create a new column in a Table control with the same name as an existing column. 

- The name of both columns must end with a number (for example, MyColumn1). 

- When creating the second column, WINDEV proposes to create an indexed control. If you accept, the index is displayed in the description window of the Table control.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Indexed control and array item
<a name="indexed_control_and_array_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000047"></a>

After its creation, the indexed control can be linked to one of the elements of an array item.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000174"></a>


### Indexed control and array item
<a name="indexed_control_and_array_item_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

When using an array item, there is no need for all the indexed controls corresponding to the item to be in the same window (contrary to WINDEV 5.5). If the array item contains 6 elements, only three elements may be found in the window.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>
In a window, an indexed control can be located:

- in a window (foreground).

- in a plane.

- in a tab. 





