


## Handling an iFrame control through programming
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000125"></a>
WEBDEV enables you to handle an IFrame control through programming. To do so,  use the variable of the IFrame control directly in the code.

The variable of the IFrame control corresponds to the name of the IFrame control. The variable type is a character string.

**Important**: An IFrame control can be programmed in server code. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying a page in an IFrame control
<a name="displaying_page_iframe_control_ELTTEXTE000149"></a>


### Changing the target of the IFrame control in the editor
<a name="changing_the_target_the_iframe_control_the_editor_ELTPARAGRAPHE000022"></a>

The target of an iFrame control can be easily changed via a button or a link.

The target can be changed only if the target of the iFrame control belongs to the current site.

To do so, create a button or a link with the following characteristics:

- Operation on the controls: "None".

- Action: "Display the XXX page". All you have to do is select the page to display.

- Destination: "In an IFrameXXX". All you have to do is select the name of the iFrame control.




**Remark**: If the target of the iFrame control does not belong to the current site, the Internet browser does not allow you to modify this target (for security reasons).
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Changing the target of IFrame control through programming
<a name="changing_the_target_iframe_control_through_programming_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

To change the target of the IFrame control through programming, use:

- [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) and specify the alias of the iFrame control into which the page must be displayed (browser code).

- [ChangeTarget](../WDLang2/3058005.md) and specify the alias of the iFrame control into which the page must be displayed (browser code) then [PageDisplay](../WDLang2/3058008.md) in server code.




The target can be changed only if the target of the iFrame control belongs to the current site.

**Remark**: If the target of the iFrame control does not belong to the current site, the Internet browser does not allow you to modify this target (for security reasons).

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Properties associated with IFrame controls
<a name="properties_associated_with_iframe_controls_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>
The following properties are used to manage the IFrame controls by programming.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [InitialValue](../Proprietes/2510128.md) | Allows you to get the initial value of a control. For an IFrame control, this property corresponds to the name of the site page or to an empty string if the control is associated with a page of another site. |
| [Type](../Proprietes/2510131.md) | Allows you to get the type of an object |

For a complete list of WLanguage properties that can be used with an IFrame control, see [Properties associated with an IFrame control](../WDChamp/1013271.md). 


