
## Description of an Organizer control (control of a page)
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Describing an Organizer control
<a name="describing_organizer_control_ELTTEXTE000184"></a>
The Organizer control can be configured in the editor via the description window ("Details" tab).

The available options are as follows: 

- **Display mode**: By default, the Organizer control displays a week, but it can also display a day or a month. 

- **Parameters of the organizer**: 

	- "First day": First day displayed in the Organizer control 

	- "Number of days": Number of days displayed in the Organizer control for a week. 

	- **Date display mask**: Used to define the format of the date displayed at the top of the "day" columns of the Organizer control.
			You also have the ability to indicate whether the week number must be displayed or not, as well as its format. In the format, the '%1' string corresponds to the week number. Example of format: "Wk. %1".

	- **Time slot**: 

		- "Visible time slot": Time period that will be displayed in the control. 

		- "Working time slot": Time period for which an appointment can be defined.  




- **Characteristics of the appointment**: 

	- "Overlap": Used to define how the overlap is managed. The appointments can be displayed side by side or they can be shifted.

	- "Granularity of an appointment": Display granularity of the Organizer control. By default, the granularity is set to 30 minutes. The granularity unit is:

		- the minute,

		- the hour,

		- the day.

- **Edit with the mouse**: 

	- "Modifying the duration". You can allow (or not) the user to modify the appointment duration. 

	- "Move". You can allow (or not) the user to move an appointment. 






<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>




<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Customizing the appointment area
<a name="customizing_the_appointment_area_ELTPARAGRAPHE000128"></a>

In the Organizer control, the appointment is displayed in a specific area. You have the ability to translate and customize this area: color of title, background color of the appointment, ...

**To modify the aspect of the appointments proposed by default**, you have the ability to modify the style options defined for this element.  

1. Open the Scheduler control description window. 

2. In the "Style" tab, select the "Appointment (xxx)" elements and modify the desired characteristics.





