
## Handling a Repositionable Note control through programming
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000171"></a>
A Repositionable Note control can be handled through programming. To do so, use the variable of the Repositionable Note control in the code. 

Specific functions can also be used to handle repositionable notes. For more details, see [Repositionable Note functions](../WDLang1/1000022398.md). 

This help page explains how to handle a Repositionable Note control through programming. 





<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Displaying an information in a Repositionable Note control
<a name="displaying_information_repositionable_note_control_ELTTEXTE000195"></a>
To display an information in a Repositionable Note control, a simple assignment is sufficient.

For example:

- direct assignment:
	
	```wl
	NOTE_CustomerNote = "Important customer"
	```


- assignment using a variable:
	
	```wl
	NOTE_CustomerNote = Note_Customer
	```





**Remark**: If the control is bound to a data file item, the value from the data source is automatically updated in the control using [FileToScreen](../WDLang4/3044210.md).
You also have the ability to use the following notation: "NOTE_CustomerNote = CUSTOMER.NOTE". For more details, see [Binding a Repositionable Note control to an item](../WDChamp/1410087012.md).

**Caution**: The Repositionable Note control includes no scrollbar. The text will be truncated if it exceeds the size of the repositionable note. The control size can be modified (with the [Height](../Proprietes/2510050.md) and [Width](../Proprietes/2510059.md) properties). 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Retrieving the value displayed in a Repositionable Note control
<a name="retrieving_the_value_displayed_repositionable_note_control_ELTTEXTE000219"></a>
To retrieve the content of a Repositionable Note control:

- perform a simple assignment. 
	For example:
	
	```wl
	CurrentNoteContent = NOTE_CustomerNote
	```


- use the [Value](../Proprietes/2510130.md) property.




**Remark**: If the control is bound to a data file item, the value entered in the control is automatically updated in the data source using [ScreenToFile](../WDLang4/3044146.md).
You also have the ability to use the following notation: "CUSTOMER.Note = NOTE_CustomerNote". For more details, see [Binding a Repositionable Note control to an item](../WDChamp/1410087012.md).

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Forcing the export or import of notes
<a name="forcing_the_export_import_notes_ELTTEXTE000243"></a>
The user can import or export the notes (found in the window or in the application) in a "wdnotes" extension file via the context menu of the Note control or window. 

You have the ability to force the export or import of the notes through programming with [AAFExecute](../WDLang1/1000022099.md): 

- the *aafExportNote* constant is used to force the export of the notes found in the specified window. The user must select the file containing the notes. 

- the *aafImportNote* constant is used to force the import of the notes. The user must select the file containing the notes. 




**Caution**: the export can be performed only if the content of the note was modified. 

Tip: To import and export all the repositionable notes found in a window, use [NoteLoadAll](../WDLang1/1000022397.md) and [NoteSaveAll](../WDLang1/1000022396.md). 





<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Properties specific to Repositionable Note controls
<a name="properties_specific_repositionable_note_controls_ELTTEXTE000267"></a>
The following properties are used to manage the characteristics of a Repositionable Note control by programming.




|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [AutomaticallyMinimized](../Proprietes/1000021963.md) | The **AutomaticallyMinimized** property is used to: <br><br>- Find out the timeout before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized.<br><br>- Define the timeout before the Repositionable Note control is automatically minimized. <br><br><br> |
| [Minimized](../Proprietes/1000022005.md) | The **Minimized** property is used to: <br><br>- find out whether a repositionable note is minimized, <br><br>- minimize or restore a repositionable note.<br><br><br> |





For a complete list of WLanguage properties that can be used with a Repositionable Note control, see [Properties associated with Repositionable Note controls](../WDChamp/1410087010.md).


