


## Customizing the report viewer (preview)
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000284"></a>
You can display a print preview in the report viewer. Then, the user will be able to print from the report viewer. 

WINDEV gives you the ability to:

- [use standard windows (print windows and report viewer)](#NOTE2).

- [apply the project skin template (print windows and report viewer)](#NOTE3).

- [customize the windows (print windows and report viewer)](#NOTE4).

- [use specific windows for the report viewer and for printing](#NOTE5). 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Using standard windows (print windows and report viewer)
<a name="using_standard_windows_print_windows_and_report_viewer_ELTTEXTE000308"></a>
By default, the standard print windows will be used when a document is printed from the report viewer.

For more details on the windows used by default, see [Customizing the report viewer: Available windows](../WDChamp/9000162.md). 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Using the standard print windows
<a name="using_the_standard_print_windows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

To use the standard print windows in your project:

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Display the "Style" tab.

3. In the "Report viewer" option, select "Standard (no skin template)".

4. Validate.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


## Applying the project skin template (print windows and report viewer)
<a name="applying_the_project_skin_template_print_windows_and_report_viewer_ELTTEXTE000338"></a>
WINDEV allows you to apply the skin template of the project to the print windows. In this case, if the print is started in the report viewer from a WINDEV application, the skin template of project will be applied to all print windows.

**To apply the skin template of project to the print windows**: 

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Display the "Style" tab.

3. In the "Report viewer" option, select "With project skin template".

4. Validate. 




<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Customizing windows (print windows and report viewer)
<a name="customizing_windows_print_windows_and_report_viewer_ELTTEXTE000362"></a>
WINDEV includes print windows and report viewer windows. These windows are entirely customizable and they can be used in several WINDEV applications.

**To customize the print windows of your project**: 

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Display the "Style" tab.

3. In the "Report viewer" option, select "Custom (included in the project)".

4. Select the type of customization to perform:

	- &lt;Standard report viewer (without skin template)&gt;: this option imports the standard print windows into your project.

	- &lt;Report viewer with project skin template&gt;: this option imports the print windows corresponding to the skin template of your project (skin template supplied with WINDEV version 10 and later only).




5. By default, if some buttons are not displayed in the report viewer of a report (export to Excel not allowed for example), WINDEV automatically reposition the displayed buttons to optimize the interface. 
	To prevent the displayed buttons from being automatically repositioned (if the buttons have been positioned on the right side of the report viewer, for example), select the "Don't move the buttons of the print preview automatically".

6. Validate. 




An internal component named "Report viewer" is included in your project. This internal component contains all the windows required to customize the print preview. 

**Remark**: If you only want to customize a few windows (for example, the report viewer only), simply remove the unnecessary windows from your project. The standard print windows will be used.
<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Modifications that can be performed in the imported print windows
<a name="modifications_that_can_performed_the_imported_print_windows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000144"></a>

The print windows imported into your project can be handled like any other window of your application.

You can modify:

- ***the characteristics of the window*** in the "Details" tab or in the "UI" tab.  

- ***the background image and its characteristics*** (position, symmetry, ...) in the "Image" tab.

- ***the style*** (background color, type of border, ...) in the "Style" tab.




The ribbon and controls in the "WD_VIEWER" window allow the user to use common features in a print preview (zoom, number of page viewed, etc.).

No code is found in the controls of this window. At runtime, the WLanguage code associated with these controls is dynamically created by WINDEV. This operating mode is based on the name of the controls. Therefore, the name of these controls must not be modified.

However, you can:

- ***modify the characteristics of these controls*** (style, position, background image, etc.) in their description window.

- *** delete these controls*** (Del key). The corresponding properties will no longer be proposed to the users.
	Caution: To configure the options shown in the ribbon, it is recommended to: 

	- use [iParameterViewer](../WDLang5/1000024634.md). For example, you can define which options are shown for all the application reports to be printed. 

	- define which options are shown for each report (in the report description window, "Details" tab).




- ***add code to these controls*** (F2 key). In this case, the WLanguage code entered will be run **after** the WLanguage code dynamically created by WINDEV.
	Caution: 

	- This code must not use any [WLanguage print functions](../WDLang5/3046065.md).

	- [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md) must not be used in the code of controls of the custom report viewer. 




- ***add controls to the viewer window***. 
	Caution: The code of these controls must not use any [WLanguage print functions](../WDLang5/3046065.md).




Then, simply save the changes you have made for them to be taken into account.

For more details on how the report viewer works, see [The standard report viewer](../WDChamp/1011085.md).

<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Using specific windows (print windows and report viewer)
<a name="using_specific_windows_print_windows_and_report_viewer_ELTTEXTE000392"></a>
Print windows and report viewer windows can correspond to windows from your project (windows directly available in the  project or accessible from a component included in the project).

**To specify the print windows that will be used in your project**: 

1. Open the project description: on the "Project" tab, in the "Project" group, click "Description".

2. Display the "Style" tab.

3. In the "Report viewer" option, select "Custom (included in the project)".

4. Select the window from your project that will be used to view the printouts. This window can be found in a component (the window must be an accessible element of the component).
	Remark: If you have chosen to include the standard report viewer windows, the "WD_Viewer" window is automatically selected. 

5. Validate.




<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## Notes
<a name="notes_ELTTEXTE000416"></a>


### Multilingual applications
<a name="multilingual_applications_ELTPARAGRAPHE000233"></a>

All the WINDEV print windows support French and English by default. To support additional languages, these windows must be customized.

**Reminder**: WDMSG simplifies the translation of a project by checking out all the project messages (control captions, window titles, ...) and by checking them back in once they have been translated. WDMSG is an additional module of WINDEV. Contact PC SOFT Sales Department for more details about WDMSG.


