
## Chart: Managing scales
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000105"></a>
In a chart, the scales are used to quickly estimate the value of different points found in a chart.

WINDEV, WEBDEV and WINDEV Mobile propose an advanced management of scales displayed in a Chart control.



<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Characteristics of the scales
<a name="characteristics_the_scales_ELTTEXTE000129"></a>


### General characteristics
<a name="general_characteristics_ELTPARAGRAPHE000028"></a>

In most of the charts that include scales, the Chart control is used to:

- define the ***step for the marks***. By default, the marks are automatically calculated from the values found in the different series. To customize the marks, simply specify the desired step in the "Marks" option of the control "General" tab.

- define ***the orientation of the marks***. By default, the orientation of the marks is adapted to the space of the marks. You have the ability to force the horizontal or vertical display of the text in the marks. To customize the orientation of the marks, simply select the desired orientation in the control "General" tab.

- define ***the minimum and maximum value of the marks***. By default, these values depend on the values found in the different series. These values can be defined in the "General" tab of the control description.

- define the space in pixels between 2 horizontal marks (option "Spacing" in the "General" tab of the control description).

- define the format of the vertical marks ("Format of marks" in the "General" tab of the control description). 





### Specific characteristics
<a name="specific_characteristics_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

You also have the ability to define specific scales:

- **Scale of X-axis spaced according to the time**. This option operates with Date or Time data coming from: 

	- a Table control, 
			

	- an HFSQL item. 

	- an array. 
			


 This option cannot be used with a series filled through programming.

- **Scale of logarithmic Y coordinates**.

- **Secondary scale**: For each series, you have the ability to specify whether the scale used for the series if the standard scale or the secondary scale. The secondary scale is displayed on the right of the chart.





