
## 2. Types of setup
			

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WM/1410086935.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WM/1410086964.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WM/1410086937.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Installation via an APK file (Android)
<a name="installation_via_apk_file_android_ELTTEXTE000189"></a>
This installation consists in:

- generating the application on the development computer.

- signing the APK file digitally.
	 Note: a self-signed key can be used.

- copying the APK file to an Android device.

- running the APK file on the Android device. This action starts the application setup.




To run the application, all you have to do is click its icon in the "All programs" menu.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installation via Google Play (Android)
<a name="installation_via_google_play_android_ELTTEXTE000213"></a>
Google Play is a Google application. Google Play features Android applications that can be purchased or downloaded via a unique interface on Android devices.

This installation consists in:

- generating the application on the development computer.

- signing the APK file digitally. To deploy apps to Google Play, it is recommended to use a real key signed by a recognized trusted authority.

- uploading the APK file to the Google Play website. 
	Note: you must be registered on the site.


Users simply need to install the desired application directly from Google Play.

To run the application, select it among the installed applications.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Installation via App Store (iOS)
<a name="installation_via_app_store_ios_ELTTEXTE000237"></a>
App Store is an Apple application. App Store features iPhone and iPad applications that can be purchased or downloaded via a unique interface on Apple devices.

This installation consists in:

- generating the application on the development computer.

- preparing the images required for the deployment. 

- compiling the application in Xcode. 

- saving the application in "iTunes Connect". 

- compiling the application in Xcode. 

- uploading the application on the App Store. 


Users simply need to install the desired application directly from the App Store.

To run the application, select it among the installed applications.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Installation via an ad hoc or in-house network (iOS)
<a name="installation_via_hoc_inhouse_network_ios_ELTTEXTE000261"></a>
This type of deployment allows you to distribute your application on an iPhone or iPad device. 

Most of the operations will be performed on the Web, then in the "Apple Developer Center", then in the Xcode compiler on a Mac.

Depending on your iOS development license, you can to use one of the following installation modes: 

- ad hoc, to install the application on several devices (up to 100).

- in-house, to install an application on all the devices belonging to the company. The application will be distributed either via a private Web server of the company, or via iTunes.




<a name="NOTE5"></a>
<a name="NOTE5_1"></a>


## Installation via the iOS and Android Private Store
<a name="installation_via_the_ios_and_android_private_store_ELTTEXTE000285"></a>
This type of deployment allows you to distribute your application on iPhone, iPad or Android devices. 

This type of installation consists in: 

- Configuring the server that will host the application setup. 

- Enabling the Private Store in your application. 

- Generating the application. 

- Uploading the application to the Private Store. 


Users simply need to install the desired application via the link or corresponding bar code directly from their devices. 

<a name="NOTE6"></a>
<a name="NOTE6_1"></a>


## Installation via Microsoft Store (Universal Windows 10 App)
<a name="installation_via_microsoft_store_universal_windows_10_app_ELTTEXTE000309"></a>
Microsoft Store is a Microsoft application. It features Universal Windows 10 Apps that can be purchased or downloaded via a unique interface on Windows 10 devices.

This installation consists in:

- generating the application on the development computer.

- uploading the application to the Microsoft Store website. 
	Note: you must be registered on the site.


Users simply need to install the desired application directly from the Microsoft Store (Windows 10 device, tablet, PC, or phone).

To run the application, select it among the installed applications.

| [Previous page](../Concepts_WM/1410086935.md) | [Table of contents](../Concepts_WM/1410086964.md) | [Next page](../Concepts_WM/1410086937.md) |
| --- | --- | --- |




