
## WDTestSite: Running a scenario
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000143"></a>
The scenario is a text file (".WCN" extension) containing all the operations performed when recording the scenario.

This scenario is run by WDTestSite.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Running a scenario
<a name="running_scenario_ELTTEXTE000167"></a>
Running a scenario allows you to run regression tests on a WEBDEV site. Indeed, a scenario run with an earlier version of the site must operate properly with an upgraded site.

Running the same scenario several times consecutively is used to test the server capacity for multiple connections, ... In this case, we recommend that you use a scenario that does not close the site.

In all cases, the scenario should be run:

- from any computer (development computer for example).

- on the Web server for deploying the WEBDEV site.



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Running a scenario
<a name="running_scenario_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

To run a scenario:

1. Configure the WEBDEV administrator of the computer where the scenario will be run (Web server). Check the parameters of the site corresponding to the scenario:

	- the maximum number of connections to the site:
			This number must correspond to the maximum number of simultaneous connections (or successive connections if the sites are not closed).

	- the maximum number of times a user can reconnect to the site:
			For a scenario run several times from a computer, this number must correspond to the number of scenario executions.

	- the idle time before disconnecting the inactive users: 
			Wen checking the server capacity, the idle time before disconnecting the inactive users must be quite long (more than 30 minutes for example).




2. Start WDTestSite on the test computer (development computer for example).

3. Select the Web server on which the scenario will be run. This server must be accessible from the test computer. The WEBDEV administrator (Development version or Deployment version) must be started on the server.
	In the "Target Computer" list, you can enter:

	- the name of a computer accessible via network. Example: "Test server"

	- an IP address. Example: 123.3.456.12

	- an Internet address. Example: www.webdev.eu
			The "Neighborhood" button is used to list the computers directly accessible via network (not available in Windows 98 or Me).




4. Select your scenario from the list of available scenarios.

5. Click "Run". The runtime window is displayed and the test is automatically run.

6. To run the scenario several times consecutively, specify a number of turns greater than 1 and click the "Re-run" button.



<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Remarks
<a name="remarks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

- When running the scenario, all the actions performed in the site are displayed. If a problem occurs (error, ...), the scenario stops and the last line displays the error that occurred.

- If an error occurs, an HTML file containing the error is saved in the "C:\\TEMP" directory of the current computer. Caution: the Internet user must have read/write rights on "C:\\Temp".

- To test the server capacity during simultaneous connections, the same scenario should be run from different computers. See "Installing WDTestSite on different computers" for more details.




<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Running a scenario in command line
<a name="running_scenario_command_line_ELTTEXTE000203"></a>
To run a scenario in command line:

1. Configure the WEBDEV administrator of the computer where the scenario will be run (Web server). Check the parameters of the site corresponding to the scenario:

	- the maximum number of connections to the site:
			This number must correspond to the maximum number of simultaneous connections (or successive connections if the sites are not closed).

	- the maximum number of times a user can reconnect to the site:
			For a scenario run several times from a computer, this number must correspond to the number of scenario executions.

	- the idle time before disconnecting the inactive users: 
			Wen checking the server capacity, the idle time before disconnecting the inactive users must be quite long (more than 30 minutes for example).




2. Start WDTestSite on the test computer by using the following syntax:





```txt
WDTestSite /AUTO = <Scenario name>
```


For example: "WDTestSite /AUTO = MyScenario.wcn". The scenario is automatically run and WDTestSite is closed.

The scenario must be found in the scenario directory. 
Reminder: The scenario (".WCN" file) is created in the "Scenario" sub-directory of the directory containing "WDTestSite.EXE".


