


## InsertColumn (Function)

***In french: InsèreColonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Inserts a column into a given position in an advanced two-dimensional array property (xlsDocument, ...). 






<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`InsertColumn(<WLanguage array> , <Insertion index> [, <Element row 1> [... [, <Element row N>]]])`
---

**`<WLanguage array>: (Array)`**

Name of the Array variable to use. This variable must correspond to a two-dimensional array.

**`<Insertion index>: (Integer)`**

Subscript where the column must be inserted. From this subscript, all the columns will be shifted by 1 column. 
If &lt;Insertion index&gt; is equal to the number of array columns + 1, the column is added at the end of the array (equivalent to [AddColumn](../WDLang1/1000017350.md)). 
A WLanguage error occurs if &lt;Insertion Subscript&gt; is greater than the number of array columns + 1.

**`<Element row 1>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the column that will be inserted into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a row in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is inserted into the array. The rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding row is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.



**`<Element row N>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the column that will be inserted into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a row in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is inserted into the array. The rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding row is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Inserting a column into an advanced array property
<a name="inserting_column_into_advanced_array_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000073"></a>

When **InsertColumn** is called:

- the advanced variable must be created.

- the advanced type must have an enumerator of modifiable collection type.

- the advanced type is automatically enlarged to receive the new column.

- the rows are initialized with the values passed as parameter. If no value is passed in parameter, the rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the array elements.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
