


## &lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus (Function)

***In french: &lt;Liste&gt;.SelectMoins***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deselects an element in a List Box, ListView or Combo Box control.

**Reminder**: The selected element corresponds to the current element onto which the selection bar is displayed.

**Remark**: **&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus** can be used on:

- List Box controls based on a data file or populated programmatically,

- single-selection or multi-selection List Box controls.













<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Deselect the element at index 7 from "LIST_CustomerList"
LIST_CustomerList.SelectMinus(7)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<List Box control>.SelectMinus([<Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<List Box control>: (Control name)`**

Name of List Box (or Combo Box) control to use.

**`<Index 1>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the first element to deselect. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are deselected. 
**&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus** has no effect if these indices correspond to elements that are not selected.



**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the Nth element to deselect. 
If no index is specified, all the elements in the specified List Box or Combo Box control are deselected. 
**&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus** has no effect if these indices correspond to elements that are not selected.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Combo Box control
<a name="combo_box_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000244"></a>

If **&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus** is used with a Combo Box control:

- no element of Combo Box control is displayed,

- if the Combo Box control is editable, the edit control is cleared.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000259"></a>

- To deselect an element from a Table control, use [&lt;Table&gt;.SelectMinus](../WDLang1/1000024285.md).

- **&lt;List Box&gt;.SelectMinus** can be used on a "Combo Box" table column.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
