


## NoteCreate (Function)

***In french: NoteCrée***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Creates a Repositionable Note control in the curernt window through programming. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Creates a colored Repositionable Note control
NewNote is Control
NewNote <- NoteCreate("Note your remarks here")
NewNote.BackgroundColor = GetColor()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = NoteCreate([<Note text> [, <X> [, <Y>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Control variable)`**

The created Repositionable Note control can be handled by a [Control](../WDLang1/1000020967.md) variable. In this case, values must be assigned with the **'<-'** operator. 

If **NoteCreate** is used directly, the control is created in the window and is visible by default. 

**`<Note text>: (Optional character string)`**

Text to display in the Repositionable Note control. 

**`<X>: (Optional integer)`**

X-coordinate of Repositionable Note control to create (position on the X-axis) in pixels. Horizontal position of the upper-left corner of Repositionable Note control in relation to the upper-left corner of the window client area (which means the window without title bar, menu bar and border). This parameter corresponds to the [XInitial](../Proprietes/2510140.md) property. 

If this parameter is not specified, the X-coordinate of control is set to 0. 

This value can be changed with the [X](../Proprietes/2510135.md) property.

**`<Y>: (Optional integer)`**

Y-coordinate of Repositionable Note control to create (position on Y-axis) in pixels. Vertical position of the upper-left corner of Repositionable Note control in relation to the upper-left corner of the window client area (which means the window without title bar, menu bar and border). This parameter corresponds to the [YInitial](../Proprietes/2510087.md) property. 

If this parameter is not specified, the Y-coordinate of control is set to 0. 

This value can be changed with the [Y](../Proprietes/2510137.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of repositionable note
<a name="characteristics_repositionable_note_ELTPARAGRAPHE000079"></a>

- The creation can be canceled by Ctrl + Z. 

- The created repositionable note is a persistent note: if the window is closed and then re-opened, the note will be restored. 
	To create a non-persistent note, use [ControlCreate](../WDLang1/1000020876.md) associated with the *typRepositionableNote* constant. 

- All the repositionable notes found in the window can be saved and restored by [NoteLoadAll](../WDLang1/1000022397.md) and [NoteSaveAll](../WDLang1/1000022396.md). 





### Equivalences
<a name="equivalences_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

- This function is equivalent to a note created in the window by the end user via AAF (Automatic Application Feature). For more details, see [Repositionable note (AAF)](../Editeurs/1000021820.md). 

- This function is equivalent to [WinEdCreateNote](../WDLang1/1000022270.md) used to create a note in the current window.  




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
