


## TableRestorePositionAndSelection (Function)

***In french: TableRestaurePositionEtSélection***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Restores the scrollbar position in a Table or TreeView Table control as well as the selected elements. These elements have been saved by [TableSavePositionAndSelection](../WDLang1/1000017412.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
SaveTable is string
SaveTable = TableSavePositionAndSelection(TABLE_Table1)
TableDisplay(TABLE_Table1, taInit)
TableRestorePositionAndSelection(TABLE_Table1, SaveTable)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`TableRestorePositionAndSelection(<Table control> [, <Save>])`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control.

- a TreeView Table control.




**`<Save>: (Optional character string)`**

Save characteristics returned by [TableSavePositionAndSelection](../WDLang1/1000017412.md). If this parameter is not specified:

- The last save performed by [TableSavePositionAndSelection](../WDLang1/1000017412.md) on the control is used (if it exists).

- fIf the option "Remember position and selection" is checked in the control description ("Details" tab), the last value saved is used.

- Otherwise, an error occurs.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

**TableRestorePositionAndSelection** can be used on:

- a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file.

- a Table or TreeView Table control populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multiselection control.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000097"></a>

- The name of the control used for the save ([TableSavePositionAndSelection](../WDLang1/1000017412.md)) can differ from the name used for the restore operation. This feature can be useful to duplicate the position and the selection on two Table controls displayed alternatively for example.

- **TableRestorePositionAndSelection** has no effect if the control is empty.

- **TableRestorePositionAndSelection** does not work on Table controls based on a data file with ongoing movement (i.e. Table controls without proportional scrollbar).



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Equivalence
<a name="equivalence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000115"></a>

The functions [TableSavePositionAndSelection](../WDLang1/1000017412.md) and **TableRestorePositionAndSelection** are equivalent to the option "Remember position and selection" available in the "Details" tab of the control description.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
