


## IWListInsert (Function)

***In french: FIListeInsère***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Inserts a new internal window in the list of internal windows used by an Internal Window control.

**Caution**: If an internal window is associated in edit with the Internal Window control, this internal window will not be accessible anymore.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Insert a customer
HAdd(CUSTOMER)
nCustomerPos is int = IWListPosition(IW_CustomerList)
IWListInsert(IW_CustomerList, nCustomerPos, IW_CustomerForm, CUSTOMER.CUSTOMERID)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`IWListInsert(<Internal Window control> , <Index> , <Internal window> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<Internal Window control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Internal Window control to use.

**`<Index>: (Integer)`**

Index of the internal window to be inserted.

**`<Internal window>: (Window name)`**

Name of the internal window that must be associated with the control.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Type of value sent to the window (optional))`**

First parameter that will be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by reference and it is considered as being a variable global to the window.



**`<Parameter N>: (Type of value sent to the window (optional))`**

Nth parameter that must be passed to the "Global declarations" event of the window to open. This parameter is passed by reference and it is considered as being a variable global to the window.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- To navigate between the different internal windows inserted into the control, you can: 

	- perform an horizontal "scroll" in the control, 

	- use [IWListPosition](../WDLang1/1000020562.md), [IWListNext](../WDLang1/1000020564.md) and/or [IWListPrevious](../WDLang1/1000020565.md).




- The added internal windows are numbered from 1 to x, according to the order in which they are added into the list. 

	- If an internal window is deleted by [IWListDelete](../WDLang1/1000020559.md), the internal windows that follow the deleted window are re-numbered. 

	- To add an internal window into the list, use [IWListAdd](../WDLang1/1000020558.md). 




- To modify the internal window currently displayed by the control, use [ChangeSourceWindow](../WDLang1/3038053.md).

- **Parameters passed to the internal window**: Parameters are retrieved in the "Global declarations" event of the internal window. Simply write the following line of code at the start of the event:
	
	```txt
	PROCEDURE <Window name>(<Parameter1> [, <Parameter2> [, ...]])
	```

	For more details, see [Window with parameters](../WDChamp/1010026.md).
	




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
