
## MutexStart (Function)

***In french: MutexDébut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Locks the current thread while waiting for the mutex to be freed.

**Reminder**: A mutex (MUTual EXclusion) is a critical section that can be specific to an application or shared among several applications. A mutex is used to manage an exclusive access to a resource shared between several threads. For example, a mutex can be used to handle a shared memory zone.








<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = MutexStart(<Mutex name> [, <Maximum timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the thread received the authorization to enter into the mutex,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise (maximum duration reached).  




**`<Mutex name>: (Character string)`**

Name of mutex used. If the mutex does not exist, it is created with the default options (see [MutexCreate](../WDLang1/1000019022.md)). 

**`<Maximum timeout>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Maximum timeout in hundredths of a second. At the end of the specified duration, if the thread did not receive the authorization, &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>. 

- If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to the *Infinite* constant, the wait is infinite.

- If this parameter is set to 0, &lt;Result&gt; corresponds to the status of the mutex. The thread is not pending. 


This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 










<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
