
## AJAXCallInProgress (Function)

***In french: AppelAJAXEnCours***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Used to determine if the request being processed is an AJAX request.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
IF NOT AJAXCallInProgress() THEN
	// Fill the chart
	...
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = AJAXCallInProgress()`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the request being processed is an AJAX request, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Difference with InAJAXMode
<a name="difference_with_inajaxmode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

**AJAXCallInProgress** is different from [InAJAXMode](../WDLang1/3013074.md). [InAJAXMode](../WDLang1/3013074.md) returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> during the AJAX action (the process or procedure) and returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> in the other cases.

In Active WEBDEV Pages, the initialization code of the project, classes, sets of procedures, page and controls is also executed at each call. During these initializations: 

- [InAJAXMode](../WDLang1/3013074.md) returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>. 

- **AJAXCallInProgress** returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 


**AJAXCallInProgress** also returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> in the closing code of the project, classes, sets of procedures, pages, etc. 

**AJAXCallInProgress** allows you to make optimizations by ignoring some unnecessary initializations during the call.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Availability of the function
<a name="availability_the_function_ELTPARAGRAPHE000218"></a>

**AJAXCallInProgress** can be used in all IDEs to allow for cross-platform code. Functions or procedures that use **AJAXCallInProgress** can be shared between several products without generating any compilation error.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280vm.dll
