


## TableColumnSelect (Function)

***In french: TableColonneSelect***




	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>16 (56)</B></B>, this feature is kept for backward compatibility. It is recommended to use [TableSelect](../WDLang1/3074020.md).

<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the column number corresponding to one of the columns selected in a Table control. 

**Remarks**:  

- The Table control must allow the selection mode by column. This option can be configured in the "GUI" tab of the Table control description. 

- To find out the number of selected columns, use [TableColumnSelectOccurrence](../WDLang1/1000019380.md).



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
NbColSelection is int 
ColNum is int 

NbColSelection = TableColumnSelectOccurrence(TABLE_TABLE1)
Trace("TableColumnSelectOccurrence() = " + NbColSelection)

FOR i = 1 TO NbColSelection
	ColNum = TableColumnSelect(TABLE_TABLE1,i)
	Trace("The column " + ColNum + " is selected")
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = TableColumnSelect(<Table control> , <Index>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Number of the selected column. The number of the first column is set to 1. 

- -1 if an error occurred. 




**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table control to be used. 

**`<Index>: (Integer)`**

Index of the selection. The index of the first selected element is set to 1. If &lt;Index&gt; is greater than the number of selected columns, &lt;Result&gt; is set to -1.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
To allow the selection of a column, you must enable in the characteristics of Table control: 

- the "Columns" selection mode (simple or multiple selection) in the "UI" tab of the description window of the Table control. 

- the "Cells" selection mode (multiple selection) in the "UI" tab of the description window of the Table control. 




The end user can select the columns by clicking the header of the column (like for a sort).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd160obj.dll
