
## &lt;Array&gt;.Mean (Function)

***In french: &lt;Tableau&gt;.Moyenne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Calculates the mean of the values within an array. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Mean of elements found in an array of integers 
MyArray is array of int = [1,2,3]
MyMean is numeric
MyMean = MyArray.Mean() // MyMean = 2
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Calculating the mean of the elements found in a one-dimensional array (numeric types)

`<Result> = <Array>.Mean()`
---

**`<Result>: (Numeric)`**

Mean of the numeric elements found in the array.

**`<Array>: (Control name)`**

Name of the one-dimensional array of numeric types containing the elements whose mean must be calculated.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Calculating the mean of the elements found in a one-dimensional array (structured types)

`<Result> = <Array>.Mean(<Member>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Numeric)`**

Mean of values of members.

**`<Array>: (Control name)`**

Name of the one-dimensional array of structured types. The following structured types are allowed: class, dynamic class, structure, dynamic structure.

Remark: In an array of dynamic classes or in an array of dynamic structures, the element is ignored if it is not allocated.

**`<Member>: (Character string)`**

Name of the member containing the values that must be used to calculate the mean.


<a name="SYNTAX3"></a>

### Calculating the mean of the elements found in a column of a two-dimensional array

`<Result> = <Array>.Mean(<Column>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Numeric)`**

Mean of column values.

**`<Array>: (Control name)`**

Name of the two-dimensional numeric array.

**`<Column>: (Integer)`**

Index of the array column containing the values used to calculate the mean.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Supported types
<a name="supported_types_ELTPARAGRAPHE000261"></a>

The following types are supported for the arrays of numeric values and for the members of arrays of structured types: 

- all integer types (on 1, 2, 4 or 8 bytes, signed or unsigned + system integer).

- real (4 or 8-byte), currency and numeric types.

- the Date type.





### Mean of durations
<a name="mean_durations_ELTPARAGRAPHE000275"></a>

If **&lt;Array&gt;.Mean** is used to calculate an average of durations, all parameters must be of type Duration.



**Sequence of functions**
You can use array functions in a sequence. 
The following functions can be used in a sequence: 

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Filter](../WDLang1/1000024968.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Map](../WDLang1/1000025418.md)

- [Union](../WDLang1/1000025408.md)

- [Intersect](../WDLang1/1000025407.md)

- [Distinct](../WDLang1/1000025406.md). 


This sequence can be used as a source for a FOR ALL statement or it can end with one of the following functions: 

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Apply](../WDLang1/1000024969.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Reduce](../WDLang1/1000024951.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Min](../WDLang1/1000025412.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Max](../WDLang1/1000025411.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Sum](../WDLang1/1000025415.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.Mean](../WDLang1/1000025417.md)

- [&lt;Array&gt;.AllFalse](../WDLang1/1000024935.md), [&lt;Array&gt;.AllTrue](../WDLang1/1000024936.md), [&lt;Array&gt;.AnyFalse](../WDLang1/1000024937.md), [&lt;Array&gt;.AnyTrue](../WDLang1/1000024938.md). 




Example: 

```wl
gnMean = garrUser.Filter(cbFilter).Map(cbMap).Mean()
```


<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280wm.dll
