


## TableInsertLineWithAnimation (Function)

***In french: TableInsèreLigneAvecAnimation***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Inserts a row into a Table control or into a TreeView Table control with an animation. The duration of this animation can be configured: 

- in the "Style" tab of the Table control description window: 

	- In the "Style" tab, select the "Control animation" element.

	- In the list of animations, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.  




- in the description window of the project: 

	- In the "Advanced" tab, click "Animations of controls". 

	- In the "Table and Looper control" area, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.







**Remarks**: 

- To add elements at the end of a Table control, use [TableAddLine](../WDLang1/3074006.md) or [TableAddLineWithAnimation](../WDLang1/1000022402.md).

- To add rows inside a hierarchy (TreeView Table control), use [TableInsertChild](../WDLang1/1000010005.md).



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Insert the "Vince" and "Moore" elements into the fifth
// row of  the Table control "TABLE_CustomerTable"
TableInsertLineWithAnimation(TABLE_CustomerTable, 5, "Vince", "Moore")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`TableInsertLineWithAnimation(<Table control> [, <Index> [, <Element column 1> [... [, <Element column N>]]]])`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control.

- a TreeView Table control. 


If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control used will be the control to which the current event belongs.

**`<Index>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the row into which the elements will be inserted. The index of the first row is set to 1.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| Index not specified | The row is inserted before the current row. If no row is selected, the row is inserted at the bottom of the control. |
| Index greater than the number of control rows | The row is inserted at the bottom of the control. |
| Index equal to 0 | The row is inserted at the beginning of the control. |
| Index equal to -1 | The row is inserted before the current row. |



**`<Element column 1>: (Type of associated column (optional))`**

First row elements that will be inserted into the specified control. Each element corresponds to a control column. The type of inserted element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added into the control. For a control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



**`<Element column N>: (Type of associated column (optional))`**

Nth row elements that will be inserted into the specified control. Each element corresponds to a control column. The type of inserted element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added into the control. For a control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000116"></a>

**TableInsertLineWithAnimation** can be used on:

- a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file.

- a Table or TreeView Table control populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection control. 




The animation is not played in the following cases: 

- if the animations are disabled ([AnimationEnabled](../WDLang1/1000017399.md)).

- if the function is used in the following window processes: "Global declarations", "End of initialization" or "Closing".

- if the application is in TSE mode. 

- if the insertion is performed outside the visible area (below or above). In this case, the insertion is performed and the function gives control back immediately.


The function gives control back at the end of animation only.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Characteristics of row elements
<a name="characteristics_row_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000143"></a>

- To specify no value for one of the elements, use an empty string ("") or 0 (depending on the type of column).

- If an element corresponds to the calculation result, the numeric expression must be enclosed in brackets. For example:
	
	```wl
	TableInsertLineWithAnimation(TABLE_CustomerTable, 3, (53+29), (83-21))
	```




<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Position of inserted row
<a name="position_inserted_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000160"></a>

By default, the row is inserted at the specified position.

Special cases: 

- If the control is sorted with [TableSort](../WDLang1/3074035.md), the new row is positioned according to the current sort and not the specified index.

- If the control is sorted by the user, the sort is ignored when inserting the row. The row is inserted at the specified position.



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Limitations: Maximum number of rows displayed
<a name="limitations_maximum_number_rows_displayed_ELTPARAGRAPHE000395"></a>

The maximum number of rows that can be displayed in a Table or TreeView Table control is limited by the amount of available memory (theoretical maximum: 2 billion rows). 

However, we do not advise you to use large Table or TreeView Table controls for performance and user-friendliness reasons (time required to fill the control for example).
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file: Modifications in the linked data file
<a name="table_treeview_table_control_based_data_file_modifications_the_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000184"></a>

- **If the cascading input is enabled**, the content of data file linked to the control is automatically modified when the user goes to the next row.

- **If the cascading input is not enabled**, the content of data file linked to the control is not modified. To write the content of inserted row into the linked data file, [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md) must be called after **TableInsertLineWithAnimation**. 




**Remark**: The "Cascading input (Add)" option can be selected in the "Details" tab of the control description.
<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>


### Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file: Inserting several rows
<a name="table_treeview_table_control_based_data_file_inserting_several_rows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000205"></a>

A virtual row is created each time **TableInsertLineWithAnimation** is called in a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file. The information will be saved in the data file during the call to [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md).

If **TableInsertLineWithAnimation** is successively called in the same process without being followed by [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md), only the FIRST call is effective (the following calls are ignored). A single row is added into the browsing Table or TreeView Table control.
<a name="NOTE0_7"></a>


### Editable Table or TreeView Table control
<a name="editable_table_treeview_table_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000226"></a>

If **TableInsertLineWithAnimation** is called:

- In a control event, the cursor is automatically positioned on the first column to edit in the inserted row.

- In an event that does not belong to the control (or in another process), [SetFocusAndReturnToUserInput](../WDLang1/1410088107.md) must be used to resume the input in the Table or TreeView Table control.



<a name="NOTE0_8"></a>


### Inserting images
<a name="inserting_images_ELTPARAGRAPHE000243"></a>

To insert an image into a Table or TreeView Table control, specify the name and full path of the image to insert.
For example:

```wl
TableInsertLineWithAnimation(TABLE_MyTable, 5, "C:\MyDocuments\MyImage.BMP")
```


**Remark**: The column must be an Image column otherwise the inserted image will not be displayed properly.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
