


## ArrayToString (Function)

***In french: TableauVersChaîne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Converts a one- or two-dimensional array to a character string.

**Remark**: This function can only be used on [WLanguage arrays](../Motscles/1514030.md).








<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// One-dimensional array
sMyValues is string 
// Initial array
MyArray is array of 3 strings
MyArray[1] = "A"
MyArray[2] = "B"
MyArray[3] = "C"
sMyValues = ArrayToString(MyArray)
// sMyValues contains: "A" + CR + "B" + CR + "C"
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// Two-dimensional array
sMyValues is string 
// Initial array
MyArray is array of 2 by 3 strings
MyArray[1,1] = "A"; MyArray[1,2] = "B"
MyArray[1,3] = "C"; MyArray[2,1] = "D"
MyArray[2,2] = "E"; MyArray[2,3] = "F"

sMyValues = ArrayToString(MyArray)
// sMyValues contains: "A" + TAB + "B" + TAB + "C" +CR+ "D" + TAB + "E" + TAB + "F"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Converting a one-dimensional array

`<Result> = ArrayToString(<WLanguage array> [, <Element separator>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Character string containing the different values found in the array. The array elements are converted into character strings and added to the string while being separated by the &lt;Element separator&gt;.

**`<WLanguage array>: (Array variable)`**

Name of the one-dimensional array that must be converted into a character string. This array must be created.

**`<Element separator>: (Optional character string)`**

Separator used to separate the values of the different array elements. The element separator used by default is the CR character (Carriage Return).  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Converting a two-dimensional array

`<Result> = ArrayToString(<WLanguage array> [, <Row separator> [, <Column separator>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

Character string containing the different values found in the array. The array elements are converted into character strings and added to the string. The rows are separated by &lt;Row separator&gt; and the columns are separated by &lt;Column separator&gt;.

**`<WLanguage array>: (Array variable)`**

Name of the two-dimensional array that must be converted into a character string. This array must be created. 

**`<Row separator>: (Optional character string)`**

Separator used to separate the values of the different rows. The row separator used by default is the CR character (Carriage Return).

**`<Column separator>: (Optional character string)`**

Separator used to separate the values of different columns. The column separator used by default is TAB.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The structure arrays supported are the one-dimensional arrays only. In this case, the order of parameters defines the order in the result string.

- The arrays containing UNICODE strings or variants are not supported.

- For the Duration type, the value is converted into thousands of a second.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
