


## WinEdCreateNote (Function)

***In french: FenEdCréeNote***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Creates a Repositionable Note control through programming. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
NOTE_MyNote is Control
NOTE_MyNote <- WinEdCreateNote(MyWindow, "New note")
NOTE_MyNote.BackgroundColor = LightBlue
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`[<Result> <- ] WinEdCreateNote(<Window> , <Initial text> [, <X> [, <Y>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Control variable)`**

The created Note control can be handled by a [Control](../WDLang1/1000020967.md) variable. In this case, values must be assigned with the **'<-'** operator. 

If **WinEdCreateNote** is directly used, the Note control is created in the window and it is visible by default. 

**`<Window>: (Window name)`**

Name or alias of window where the Note control will be created. 
If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""), the Note control will be created in the current window.

**`<Initial text>: (Character string)`**

Text displayed in the Note control.

**`<X>: (Optional integer)`**

X-coordinate of Note control to create (position on the X-axis) in pixels. Horizontal position of the upper-left corner of the control, relative to the upper-left corner of the window's client area (i.e. the window without title bar, menu bar or borders). This parameter corresponds to the [XInitial](../Proprietes/2510140.md) property. 

If this parameter is not specified, the X-coordinate of Note control corresponds to the X position of the mouse. 

This value can be changed with the [X](../Proprietes/2510135.md) property.

**`<Y>: (Optional integer)`**

Y-coordinate of Note control to create (position on Y-axis) in pixels. Vertical position of the upper-left corner of the control, relative to the upper-left corner of the window's client area (i.e. the window without title bar, menu bar or borders). This parameter corresponds to the [YInitial](../Proprietes/2510087.md) property. 

If this parameter is not specified, the Y-coordinate of Note control corresponds to the Y position of the mouse. 

This value can be changed with the [Y](../Proprietes/2510137.md) property.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of Repositionable Note control
<a name="characteristics_repositionable_note_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

- The creation can be canceled by Ctrl + Z. 

- Once created, the Repositionable Note control created is persistent: if the window is closed and then re-opened, the note will be restored. 
	To create a non-persistent Note control, use [ControlCreate](../WDLang1/1000020876.md) associated with the constant *typRepositionableNote*. 

- The Repositionable Note control will be saved during the call to the functions: 

	- [WinEdSave](../WDLang1/1000021848.md),

	- [WinEdSaveNote](../WDLang1/1000022120.md),

	- [NoteSaveAll](../WDLang1/1000022396.md). 






<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Equivalences
<a name="equivalences_ELTPARAGRAPHE000095"></a>

- This function is equivalent to a note created in the window by the end user via AAF (Automatic Application Feature). For more details, see [Repositionable note (AAF)](../Editeurs/1000021820.md). 

- Used to create a Repositionable Note control in the current window, this function is equivalent to [NoteCreate](../WDLang1/1000022395.md).   




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
