


## SchedulerDateVisible (Function)

***In french: PlanningDateVisible***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Makes a day visible or invisible in a Scheduler control. 

Remark: The day that was made invisible will no longer appear if the Scheduler control is displayed on a weekly basis. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Don't display Wednesday
ThisWednesday is Date = DateSys()
ThisWednesday.Day += 3 - DateToDay(ThisWednesday) 
SchedulerDateVisible(SCH_MyScheduler, ThisWednesday, False)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Making a day visible or invisible

`SchedulerDateVisible(<Scheduler control> , <Date> , <Visible>)`
---

**`<Scheduler control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Scheduler control to use. 

**`<Date>: (Character string or Date variable)`**

Date to be made visible or invisible. This date is in "YYYYMMDD" format.

**`<Visible>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to make the date visible,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to make the date invisible. 





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out whether a day is visible or invisible

`<Result> = SchedulerDateVisible(<Scheduler control> , <Date>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the date is visible,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the date is invisible.




**`<Scheduler control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Scheduler control to use. 

**`<Date>: (Character string or Date variable)`**

Date to use. This date is in "YYYYMMDD" format. 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The invisible days are "skipped" when drawing the Scheduler control.
	For example, if a Wednesday is invisible, the Scheduler control displays Tuesday and then Thursday. 

- The display is refreshed immediately or when changing period: 

	- If the Scheduler control currently displays only one day and that day becomes invisible, the day is made invisible when the day or period is changed. 

	- If the Scheduler control displays 1 week or 1 month, the invisible days are not displayed but the Scheduler control does not display more days.

	- If the Scheduler control displays X days, the invisible days are not counted in the X days. For example, is the Scheduler control displays 4 days while Wednesday is invisible, the 4 days displayed will be: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday.  




- If an appointment lasts during several days (among which 1 invisible day), it will visually appear as being shorter. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280mdl.dll
