


## dbgSaveDebugDump (Function)

***In french: dbgSauveDumpDébogage***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Saves a dump file of the application. A dump file is used to reposition "later" the debugger on the runtime information of the application when the function was called. This allows you to view the stack and the content of variables when opening the dump file generated in WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile.

**To read the dump file**, you must: 

- Drag and Drop the ".wdump" file to the window editor or page editor (on the bar of opened documents for example).

- directly open the ".wdump" file (on the "Home" tab, in the "General" group, expand "Open" and select "Open").


Caution: The dump file can be opened only with the version of the editor used to generate the executable that created the dump file. 

**Remarks**:

- To view the dump file, the current project in the editor must be the project of the application or the project of one of the components used by the application. Only the information regarding the current project will be displayed. 

- Unlike the memory dump, the dump file is used to view the content of the memory and the content of the variables during the call to the function.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Save the dump file in the current runtime audit
dbgSaveDebugDump()
```


<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// Save the dump file in a file
dbgSaveDebugDump(fExeDir() + ["\"] + "MyDump.wdump")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Saving the dump file in the current dynamic audit

`dbgSaveDebugDump()`
---

**Remark**: This syntax saves the memory dump in the dynamic audit file if the audit is enabled ([dbgEnableAudit](../WDLang1/1000018835.md)). The function has no effect if the dynamic audit is not enabled. The audit can be enabled by [dbgEnableAudit](../WDLang1/1000018835.md).
<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Saving the dump file in a file

`dbgSaveDebugDump(<Name of dump file>)`
---

**`<Name of dump file>: (Character string)`**

Name of the file where the dump is saved. The name of the file can be built with the following elements:


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [%ExeDir%] | Directory of the executable, always filled with the "\\" character. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fExeDir](../WDLang1/3036049.md). |
| [%ExeName%] | Executable name. |
| [%Date%] | Start date of the dump file (YYYYMMDD format). |
| [%Time%] | Start time of the dump file (HHMMSS format). |
| [%UserName%] | Name of the current user. |
| [%ComputerName%] | Computer name. |
| [%DataDir%] | Directory of the HFSQL data files specified by the user when installing the application. This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDir](../WDLang1/3036001.md). |
| [%DirUserData%] | Directory for the data of the current user of the current application.  This directory is equivalent to the result of [fDataDirUser](../WDLang1/3036071.md). |


If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""): 

- The extension of the file will be ".wdump". 

- the name of the created file corresponds to: "[%UserDataDir%][%ExeName%]_[%Date%]_[%Time%]". 
	For example: "C:\\Users\\Doc\\AppData\\Roaming\\WINDEV Applications\\MyApp\\MyApp_20091023_130812.wdump".




Caution: If you use dynamic string construction ("Allow "[% %]" in strings" in the "Compilation" tab of the project description), a compilation error occurs (unknown identifier). In this case, each string must be preceded by '-%'. Example: 

```wl
dbgSaveDebugDump("[%UserDataDir%][%ExeName%]_[%Date%]_[%Time%]")
```
 becomes
```wl
dbgSaveDebugDump(-%"[%UserDataDir%][%ExeName%]_[%Date%]_[%Time%]")
```




<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Windows of exceptions and errors
<a name="windows_exceptions_and_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000215"></a>

The windows of exceptions and errors propose an option that is used to save a dump file when the exception or the error occurs. It is the following link:
"Save the information for the application provider (dump file)"


### Handling exceptions programmatically
<a name="handling_exceptions_programmatically_ELTPARAGRAPHE000222"></a>

When called from an exception handling code, **dbgSaveDebugDump** saves the dump file at the time the exception occurred, and not the current dump file in the exception process.

To save the status at the time of the exception, call **dbgSaveDebugDump** directly from the exception process.

If you use **dbgSaveDebugDump** from a procedure (or method) called **in** the exception process, the status saved will be the one of the current process: the stack will no longer correspond to the exception. 

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
