


## &lt;Organizer&gt;.DateVisible (Function)

***In french: &lt;Agenda&gt;.DateVisible***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Makes a day visible or invisible in an Organizer control. 

Remark: The day that was made invisible will no longer appear if the organizer is displayed on a weekly basis. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Don't display Wednesday
ThisWednesday is Date = DateSys()
ThisWednesday.Day += 3 - ThisWednesday.ToDay() 
ORG_MyOrganizer.DateVisible(ThisWednesday, False)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Making a day visible or invisible

`<Organizer control>.DateVisible(<Date> , <Visible>)`
---

**`<Organizer control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Organizer control to use (found in a window)

**`<Date>: (Character string or Date variable)`**

Date to be made visible or invisible. This date is in "YYYYMMDD" format.

**`<Visible>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to make the date visible,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> to make the date invisible.





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out whether a day is visible or invisible

`<Result> = <Organizer control>.DateVisible(<Date>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the date is visible,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the date is invisible.




**`<Organizer control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Organizer control to use (found in a window)

**`<Date>: (Character string or Date variable)`**

Date to use. This date is in "YYYYMMDD" format.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The invisible days are "skipped" when drawing the organizer.
	For example, if a Wednesday is invisible, the Organizer control displays Tuesday and then Thursday. 

- The display is refreshed immediately or when changing period: 

	- If the Organizer control currently displays only one day and that day becomes invisible, the day is made invisible when the day or period is changed. 

	- If the Organizer control displays 1 week, invisible days are not displayed but the Organizer control does not display more days. 

	- If the Organizer control displays 1 month, the invisible days are displayed (there are no "holes" in the calendar). 




- If an appointment lasts during several days (among which 1 invisible day), it will visually appear as being shorter.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
