


## &lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation (Function)

***In french: &lt;Table&gt;.AjouteLigneAvecAnimation***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a row to a Table or TreeView Table control with an animation. The duration of this animation can be configured: 

- in the "Style" tab of the Table (or TreeView Table) control description window: 

	- In the "Style" tab, select the "Control animation" element.

	- In the list of animations, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.  




- in the description window of the project: 

	- In the "Advanced" tab, click "Animations of controls". 

	- In the "Table and Looper control" area, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.  







If the added row is the first row of the control, the added row becomes the current row.

**Remarks**: 

- This function is equivalent to [&lt;Table&gt;.AddLine](../WDLang1/1000023404.md). The only difference is the management of animation. 

- To add a row at a specific position, use [&lt;Table&gt;.InsertLine](../WDLang1/1000023407.md) or [&lt;Table&gt;.InsertLineWithAnimation](../WDLang1/1000024272.md).



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Add "Moore" and "Vince" 
// in the last row of the "TABLE_ProductTable" control
TABLE_ProductTable.AddLineWithAnimation("Moore", "Vince")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Table control>.AddLineWithAnimation([<Element column 1> [... [, <Element column N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Control name)`**



- Index of the added row, 

- -1 if an error occurred.




**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control.

- a TreeView Table control.




**`<Element column 1>: (Type of associated column (optional))`**

Elements of the row that will be added into the specified control. Each element corresponds to a control column. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added into the control. For a control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



**`<Element column N>: (Type of associated column (optional))`**

Elements of the row that will be added into the specified control. Each element corresponds to a control column. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added into the control. For a control based on a data file, the default values defined in the linked data file are taken into account.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000267"></a>

**&lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation** can be used on:

- a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file.

- a Table or TreeView Table control populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection control. 




The animation is not played in the following cases: 

- if the animations are disabled ([AnimationEnabled](../WDLang1/1000017399.md)).

- if the function is used in the following window events: "Global declarations", "End of initialization" or "Closing". 

- if the application is in TSE mode. 

- if the addition is performed outside the visible area (below or above). In this case, the addition is performed and the function gives control back immediately.


The function gives control back at the end of animation only.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Characteristics of row elements
<a name="characteristics_row_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000295"></a>

- To specify no value for an element, use an empty string ("") or 0 (according to the type of column).

- If an element corresponds to the calculation result, the numeric expression must be enclosed in brackets. 
	For example: 
	
	```wl
	TABLE_CalculationTable.AddLineWithAnimation((53+29), (83-21))
	```




<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Position of the new row
<a name="position_the_new_row_ELTPARAGRAPHE000317"></a>

By default, the row is added at the end of the rows displayed by the control.

Special case: 

- If the control is sorted by [&lt;Table&gt;.Sort](../WDLang1/1000024293.md), the added row is positioned in the control according to the current sort.

- If the control is sorted by the user, the sort is ignored when inserting the row. The row is added at the end of control.



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Limitations: Maximum number of rows displayed
<a name="limitations_maximum_number_rows_displayed_ELTPARAGRAPHE000339"></a>

The maximum number of rows that can be displayed in a Table or TreeView Table control is limited by the amount of available memory (theoretical maximum: 2 billion rows).

However, we do not advise you to use large Table or TreeView Table controls for performance and user-friendliness reasons (time required to fill the control for example).
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file: Modifications in the linked data file
<a name="table_treeview_table_control_based_data_file_modifications_the_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000351"></a>

- **If the cascading input is enabled**, the data file linked to the control is automatically modified when the user goes to the next row.

- **If the cascading input is not enabled**, the data file linked to the Table control based on a data file is not modified. To write the content of the new row to the linked data file, [&lt;Table&gt;.Save](../WDLang1/1000024249.md) must be used after **&lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation**.




**Remark**: The "Cascading input (Add)" option can be selected in the "Details" tab of the control description.
<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>


### Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file: Adding several rows
<a name="table_treeview_table_control_based_data_file_adding_several_rows_ELTPARAGRAPHE000375"></a>

A virtual row is created each time **&lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation** is called in a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file. The information will be saved in the linked data file during the call to [&lt;Table&gt;.Save](../WDLang1/1000024249.md).

If **&lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation** is successively called in the same process without being followed by [&lt;Table&gt;.Save](../WDLang1/1000024249.md), only the FIRST call is effective (the following calls are ignored). Only one row is added to the control.
<a name="NOTE0_7"></a>


### Adding records to a Table control based on a data file and Trigger
<a name="adding_records_table_control_based_data_file_and_trigger_ELTPARAGRAPHE000401"></a>

A trigger can be released when a record is added in a Table control based on a data file. For more details, see the documentation about [&lt;Source&gt;.DescribeTrigger](../WDLang4/1000024216.md).
<a name="NOTE0_8"></a>


### Editable Table or TreeView Table control
<a name="editable_table_treeview_table_control_ELTPARAGRAPHE000416"></a>

If **&lt;Table&gt;.AddLineWithAnimation** is called:

- In a control event, the cursor is automatically positioned on the first editable column in the new row.

- In an event that does not belong to the control (or in another process), [SetFocusAndReturnToUserInput](../WDLang1/1410088107.md) must be used to resume the input in the Table or TreeView Table control.



<a name="NOTE0_9"></a>


### Adding images
<a name="adding_images_ELTPARAGRAPHE000434"></a>

To add an image to a Table or TreeView Table control, specify the name and full path of the image to be added. For example:

```wl
TABLE_MyTable.AddLineWithAnimation("C:\MyDocuments\MyImage.BMP")
```


**Remark**: The column must be an Image column otherwise the added image will not be displayed properly.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
