


## AddColumn (Function)

***In french: AjouteColonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a column at the end of a two-dimensional array property ([xlsDocument](../WDLang5/1000017464.md) variable for example).






<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = AddColumn(<WLanguage array> [, <Element row 1> [... [, <Element row N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Index of the new column,

- -1 if an error occurred.




**`<WLanguage array>: (Array)`**

Name of the Array variable to use. This array must be a one-dimensional array or a two-dimensional array.

**`<Element row 1>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the column that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a row in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is added to the array. The rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding row is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.



**`<Element row N>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the column that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a row in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty column is added to the array. The rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding row is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
When **AddColumn** is called:

- the advanced variable must be created.

- the advanced type must have an enumerator of modifiable collection type.

- the advanced type is automatically enlarged to receive the new column.

- the rows are initialized with the values passed as parameter. If no value is passed in parameter, the rows are initialized with the default value of the type of the array elements.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
