
## ControlExecuteClosing (Function)

***In french: ChampExécuteFermeture***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Runs the closing WLanguage event of an office control and displays its confirmation dialog if necessary. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click the VALIDATE button
IF NOT ControlExecuteClosing(PSHEET_Spreadsheet) THEN
	RETURN
END
Close()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = ControlExecuteClosing(<Office control>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- If the closing WLanguage event of the control returns a value (<u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> or <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>), &lt;Result&gt; corresponds to this value. 

- If the closing WLanguage event of the control returns no value: 

	- if the [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property of the control is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>, a confirmation dialog is displayed: &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the user asks not to close the document, <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> otherwise.  

	- if the [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property of the control is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>, the function returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 







**`<Office control>: (Control name)`**

Name of office control to use. This control can correspond to: 

- a Spreadsheet control,

- a Word Processing control,

- an Image Editor control,

- a PDF Reader control. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- This function is automatically called by the ribbon of office controls (Spreadsheet, Word Processing, Image Editor or PDF Reader controls) on the following user actions:

	- New.

	- Open.

	- Drag and Drop a document to the control.




- This function performs the following operations: 

	- Running the event "Before closing the document".

	- If this event returns a value (<u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> or <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>), the function stops and returns this value. 

	- If this event does not return a value: 

		- if [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) on the control is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>, the function displays a confirmation dialog to the user and it returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the user asks not to close the document. 

		- if the [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property of the control is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>, the function returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 




- This function can be called for example when closing a window or before a new content is assigned to the control.

- The following code allows you to display the confirmation dialog only: 
	
	```wl
	bCloseOK = AAFExecute(PSHEET_Spreadsheet, aafClosingDialog)
	```


- To run only the closing WLanguage event of the document, use the following code: 
	
	```wl
	ExecuteProcess(PSHEET_Spreadsheet, trtBeforeClosingDocument)
	```





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
