


## TableSwapLine (Function)

***In french: TableEchangeLigne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Swaps: 

- two rows in a Table control populated programmatically. 

- two branches in a TreeView Table control populated programmatically.




**Remarks**: 

- In a Table control, **TableSwapLine** is used to swap two rows identified by their number. To perform a specific swap (taking the current row into account, ...), use [TableMoveLine](../WDLang1/1000017247.md). 

- In a TreeView Table control, **TableSwapLine** is used to swap two branches identified by their number. To swap rows identified by their path, use [TableSwapBranch](../WDLang1/1000020505.md).







<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Swap rows 5 and 20 in a Table control
TableSwapLine(TABLE_Menu, 5, 20)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`TableSwapLine(<Table control> , <Index of row to move> , <Destination row index>)`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Table or TreeView Table control to be used. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control to which the current process belongs will be used.

**`<Index of row to move>: (Integer)`**

Position of the row to move. This position must be included between 1 and the total number of rows found in the control (returned by [TableCount](../WDLang1/3074021.md) or [Count](../Proprietes/2510097.md) for example).

**`<Destination row index>: (Integer)`**

New row position. This position must be included between 1 and the total number of rows found in the control (returned by [TableCount](../WDLang1/3074021.md) or [Count](../Proprietes/2510097.md) for example). A fatal error occurs if this parameter is not valid.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000109"></a>

**TableSwapLine** can be used on: 

- a Table or TreeView Table control populated programmatically. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
