


## TableModifyColumn (Function)

***In french: TableModifieColonne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Modifies a column in an "horizontal Table" control.

**Remark**: **TableModifyColumn** can be used on:

- a horizontal Table control based on a data file or populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection Table control.





<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`TableModifyColumn(<Table control> , <Index> [, <Element row 1> [... [, <Element row N>]]])`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Horizontal Table control to be used.

If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the Table control used will be the one to which the current event belongs.

**`<Index>: (Integer)`**

Index of the column to be modified. The index of the first column is set to 1.


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| Index equal to -1. | The current column is modified. No effect if no column is selected. |
| Index greater than the number of columns in the Table control. | A WLanguage error occurs. |



**`<Element row 1>: (Optional character string)`**

First element of the first row to be modified in the column. The value of this element replaces the existing value. Each element corresponds to a row in the Table control. Each type of modified element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of the &lt;Element row X&gt; parameters are specified, **TableModifyColumn** has no effect.



**`<Element row N>: (Optional character string)`**

Nth element of the Nth row to be modified in the column. The value of this element replaces the existing value. Each element corresponds to a row in the Table control. Each type of modified element must be compatible with the type of the relevant row.
If none of the &lt;Element row X&gt; parameters are specified, **TableModifyColumn** has no effect.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of column elements
<a name="characteristics_column_elements_ELTPARAGRAPHE000082"></a>

- To modify the value of an element in a column, use the following syntax:
	
	```txt
	TableControl.RowName[ColumnIndex] = NewValue
	```


- If an element corresponds to the calculation result, the numeric expression must be enclosed in brackets. For example:
	
	```wl
	TableModifyColumn(TABLE_CalcTable, (53+29),(83-21))
	```




<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Table based on a data file: Modifications in the linked data file
<a name="table_based_data_file_modifications_the_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000101"></a>

If the cascading input is enabled, the data file linked to the Table control is automatically modified when the user goes to the next column.

If the cascading input is not enabled, the data file linked to the Table control based on a data file is not modified. To write the record into the data file, [TableSave](../WDLang1/3074008.md) must be run after **TableModifyColumn**.

**Reminder**: The "cascading input" option can be selected:

- When creating a Table control.

- In the "Details" tab of the description window of Table control in the window editor.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Modifications performed in a Table control based on a data file
<a name="modifications_performed_table_control_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000122"></a>

To modify a column in a Table control based on a data file, we advise you to:

- modify the record in the file with [HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md), 

- use [TableDisplay](../WDLang1/3074003.md) to refresh the Table control.



<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### TableModifyColumn function and Modified property
<a name="docparampagetitleshort_function_and_modified_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000140"></a>

**TableModifyColumn** has no influence on the [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property. The [Modified](../Proprietes/2510080.md) property is used to know if the current column has been directly modified by the user (direct input in the Table control).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
