


## &lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation (Function)

***In french: &lt;Table&gt;.SupprimeAvecAnimation***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deletes a row from a Table control, from a TreeView Table control (or from a table displayed in a Combo Box control) with an animation. The duration of this animation can be configured:

- in the "Style" tab of the Table control description window: 

	- In the "Style" tab, select the "Control animation" element.

	- In the list of animations, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.  




- in the description window of the project:

	- In the "Advanced" tab, click "Animations of controls". 

	- In the "Table and Looper control" area, select "Modification by TableXXXWithAnimation()" and click the "Parameters" button.







Remark: This function is equivalent to [&lt;Table&gt;.Delete](../WDLang1/1000024289.md). The only difference is the management of animation.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Delete row #5 from the "TABLE_Product" control
TABLE_Product.DeleteWithAnimation(5)
```


<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// Delete all selected rows from a Table control
i is int
NbSelection is int = TABLE_MyTable.SelectCount()
FOR i = NbSelection TO 1 STEP -1
	TABLE_MyTable.DeleteWithAnimation(TABLE_MyTable.Select(i))
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Table control>.DeleteWithAnimation([<Subscript>])`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control.

- a TreeView Table control. 

- a Combo Box control with table.




**`<Subscript>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the row to delete. 
If this parameter is not specified, the selected rows are deleted. If this parameter is not specified and if no row is selected, **&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** has no effect.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000246"></a>

**&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** can be used on:

- Table or TreeView Table controls based on a data file.

- Table or TreeView Table controls populated programmatically.

- single-selection or multi-selection controls. 




The animation is not played in the following cases: 

- if the animations are disabled ([AnimationEnabled](../WDLang1/1000017399.md)).

- if the function is used in the following window events: "Global declarations", "End of initialization" or "Closing". 

- if the application is in TSE mode. 

- if the deletion is performed outside the visible area (below or above). In this case, the deletion is performed and the function gives control back immediately.


The function gives control back at the end of animation only.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Deleting records in a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file
<a name="deleting_records_table_treeview_table_control_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000274"></a>

**&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** deletes the corresponding record from the data file associated with the control. If items are linked to other data files, no modification is automatically performed on these linked data files.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Referential integrity and Table or TreeView Table controls based on a data file
<a name="referential_integrity_and_table_treeview_table_controls_based_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000286"></a>

If the management of referential integrity is enabled ([&lt;Connection variable&gt;.SetIntegrity](../WDLang4/1000023960.md)), [HErrorIntegrity](../WDLang4/3044086.md) must be called after **&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** to check the integrity.

If an integrity error is detected, the row is not deleted and it remains visible in the control.
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Deleting records in a Table control based on a data file and Trigger
<a name="deleting_records_table_control_based_data_file_and_trigger_ELTPARAGRAPHE000308"></a>

You have the ability to activate a trigger when deleting a record from a Table control based on a data file. For more details, see the documentation about [&lt;Source&gt;.DescribeTrigger](../WDLang4/1000024216.md).
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Handling errors
<a name="handling_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000323"></a>

The [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the deletion fails. To get the details of the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).  

Example of error cases: Attempt to delete a row whose index corresponds to a row not selected in the visible part of the Table control.
<a name="NOTE0_6"></a>


### Locking the linked data file
<a name="locking_the_linked_data_file_ELTPARAGRAPHE000345"></a>

If the data file is locked in the current process, **&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** deletes the specified row and unlocks the data file.
<a name="NOTE0_7"></a>


### Deleting records in a Table control populated programmatically with a "Contains" filter
<a name="deleting_records_table_control_populated_programmatically_with_contains_filter_ELTPARAGRAPHE000357"></a>

When used on a Table control populated programmatically with a "Contains" filter, **&lt;Table&gt;.DeleteWithAnimation** displays the records that do not match the filter. The filters defined by the AAFs (Automatic Application Features) are canceled.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
