


## &lt;DateTime type&gt;.ToReal (Function)

***In french: &lt;Type DateHeure&gt;.VersRéel***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Converts a date and a time to an 8-byte real. This real corresponds to:

- the number of elapsed days since January 1, 1900 (compatible with Excel, starts with 1). 

- the number of elapsed days since January 1, 1904 (compatible with Excel by checking the option "Use 1904 date system", starts with 0). 




Remark: The option "Use 1904 date system" can be configured in the advanced options of Microsoft Excel. In Open Office, this option is available in the options of Open Office Calc ("Calculate" section, "Date" option). 




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyDay is DateTime
MyDay = "190001030600"
// Displays "3.25"
Info(MyDay.ToReal())
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = <DateTime to convert>.ToReal([<From 1904>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Real)`**



- Number of days that correspond to the DateTime variable passed as parameter. 

- -1 if an error occurred (invalid date and time).




**`<DateTime to convert>: (DateTime variable)`**

Value of the date and time to convert. This parameter can be: 

- a DateTime variable. 

- a character string in one of the following formats: 

	- YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCCC

	- YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCC

	- YYYYMMDDHHmmSS

	- YYYYMMDDHHmm

	- YYYYMMDDHH

	- YYYYMMDD







**`<From 1904>: (Optional boolean)`**

Calculation mode: 

- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the date is calculated from 1904. 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (default value) if the date is calculated from 1900.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Calculation mode
<a name="calculation_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000241"></a>

The integer part of the result gives the serial number that corresponds to the date in the parameter: 

- the count starts with 1 for 01/01/1900. 

- the count starts with 0 for 01/01/1904 if &lt;From 1904&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>. 


The decimal part gives the fraction of a day that corresponds to the time in the parameter (for example, 06:00 corresponds to 0.25).

Any type conversion may cause a loss of precision.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Valid dates/times
<a name="valid_datestimes_ELTPARAGRAPHE000262"></a>

&lt;DateTime to convert&gt; is considered invalid: 

- if the date is invalid or earlier than the starting date. The date must be between 01/01/1900 and 12/31/999 or 01/01/1904 and 12/31/999. You can check the validity of a date using [DateValid](../WDLang1/3027003.md).

- if the time is invalid. You can check the validity of a time using [TimeValid](../WDLang1/3027021.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280std.dll
