


## Dequeue (Function)

***In french: Défile***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Removes an element from the queue. The element is removed from the queue and returned in the specified variable.  




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyQueue is queue of int

// Enqueues the values 1, 2 and 3
Enqueue(MyQueue, 1)
Enqueue(MyQueue, 2)
Enqueue(MyQueue, 3)

// Display the trace: 1, 2, 3
x is int
WHILE Dequeue(MyQueue, x)
	Trace(x)
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Retrieving the element at the beginning of the queue

`<Result> = Dequeue(<Queue> [, <Element>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the element was removed from the queue,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the queue is empty.




**`<Queue>: (Queue)`**

Name of the [Queue](../WDLang1/1514021.md) variable to be used.

**`<Element>: (Type of elements handled by the queue, optional parameter)`**

Name of the variable in which the value of the removed element is returned. If this parameter is not specified, the element is removed but its value is not retrieved.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Retrieving the element at the beginning of the queue (multithread syntax)

`<Result> = Dequeue(<Queue> [, <Element> [, <Options> [, <Timeout>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the element was removed from the queue,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the timeout is exceeded (&lt;Timeout&gt; parameter) or if [AdditionCompleted](../Proprietes/1000018388.md) becomes <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.




**`<Queue>: (Queue)`**

Name of the [Queue](../WDLang1/1514021.md) variable to be used.

**`<Element>: (Type of elements handled by the queue, optional parameter)`**

Name of the variable in which the value of the removed element is returned. If this parameter is not specified, the element is removed but its value is not retrieved.

**`<Options>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Queue options:



|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *WaitIfEmpty* | Waits for an element to be added to the queue by another thread. |



**`<Timeout>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Maximum timeout expressed in hundredths of a second. This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 


This parameter corresponds to the *Infinite* constant by default (no maximum timeout).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode for a multithread management
<a name="operating_mode_for_multithread_management_ELTPARAGRAPHE000147"></a>

If an element is in the queue, it is removed from the queue and returned by the &lt;Element&gt; parameter by reference.

If the queue is empty, **Dequeue** waits for an element to be added to the queue. The maximum timeout can be specified by the &lt;Timeout&gt; parameter.

The function returns <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if an element has been removed from the queue. Otherwise, it returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the timeout has been reached or if the [AdditionCompleted](../Proprietes/1000018388.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>.

[NbPendingThread](../Proprietes/1000018387.md) returns the number of pending threads.

The assignment of [AdditionCompleted](../Proprietes/1000018388.md) to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> provokes the end of the timeout for all the pending threads. In this case, **Dequeue** returns <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
