
## AnimationPrepare (Function)

***In french: AnimationPrepare***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Prepares the animation on a control, a group of controls or a window. Then, the animation will be played by [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md).

The principle is as follows:

1. Using **AnimationPrepare**.

2. Modify the controls in the code (fill, move, change of plane, etc.). These modifications are not displayed. These modifications will be displayed when using [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md).

3. [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md) function. This function is used to switch from the "before modification" status to the "after modification" status by playing an animation.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Prepare the animation
// The animation will be played in the window
AnimationPrepare(WIN_Customer, WIN_Customer.X, WIN_Customer.Y, ...
		WIN_Customer.Width, WIN_Customer.Height)
// Modify controls 
BTN_Down.Visible = False
IMG_Detail.Height += 50
WIN_Customer.Plane--
// Performs the modifications and plays the animation
AnimationPlay(animFadeIn)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`AnimationPrepare(<Element> [, <X> , <Y> , <Width> , <Height>])`
---

**`<Element>: (Character string)`**

Name of the control or window where the animation will be performed.

**`<X>: (Optional integer)`**

X-coordinate (in pixels) of the top left corner of the rectangle where the animation will be performed.

**`<Y>: (Optional integer)`**

Y-coordinate (in pixels) of the top left corner of the rectangle where the animation will be performed.

**`<Width>: (Optional integer)`**

Width (in pixels) of the rectangle where the animation will be performed.

**`<Height>: (Optional integer)`**

Height (in pixels) of the rectangle where the animation will be performed.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- An error occurs if **AnimationPrepare** is called twice without a call to [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md).

- To avoid slowing down the window opening process, **AnimationPrepare** and [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md) have no effect when they are used in the "Initializing" event of the window.

- **AnimationPrepare** and [AnimationPlay](../WDLang1/1000017387.md) have no effect: 

	- if "Enable the animation of controls on the project" is not checked. This option is available in the description window of the project, "Advanced" tab, "Animation of controls" button. 

	- if [AnimationEnabled](../WDLang1/1000017399.md) has not been called to enable the animations. 







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
