
## InvalidInputListControl (Function)

***In french: SaisieInvalideListeChamp***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Builds a list of controls that require data input/contain invalid data. The controls are not marked as containing errors.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
arrInvalidControls is array of Control = InvalidInputListControl()
IF NOT arrInvalidControls.Empty THEN
	Error("Problem")
END

ControlList is array of Control = InvalidInputListControl()
FOR EACH ELEMENT c OF ControlList
	c.BackgroundColor = LightRed
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = InvalidInputListControl([<Element used>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of Control)`**

Array of [Control](../WDLang1/1000020967.md) variables containing the list of controls that required data input/contain invalid data. This array is sorted according to the tab order of the controls.

**`<Element used>: (Optional control name or window name)`**

Name of the control or window to be checked. If the control is a container (Tab control, Supercontrol, etc.), all its controls will be checked. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the controls in the current window will be checked.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of the verification/detection of controls that require data input/contain invalid data
<a name="characteristics_the_verificationdetection_controls_that_require_data_inputcontain_invalid_data_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

The input will be checked in the following types of controls: 

- **Radio Button/Check Box control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that at least one option is selected.

- **Rating control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a rating has been selected.

- **Editable Combo Box**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been entered or selected in the combo box. 
	If an input mask has been used, the function checks that the entered data matches this mask. 
	If a custom mask with an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable is used, the verification is performed by executing the procedure associated with the **CheckIfValidInput** property of this mask.

- **Non-editable Combo Box**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been selected in the combo box. 

- **Edit control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been entered or selected in the control. 
	If an input mask has been used, the function checks that the entered data matches this mask. If a custom mask with an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable is used, the verification is performed by executing the procedure associated with the **CheckIfValidInput** property of this mask.


Only active and visible controls are checked.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>

- To highlight errors in controls that require data input/contain invalid data, use [InvalidInputDetect](../WDLang1/1000026180.md) or [InvalidInputShowMessage](../WDLang1/1000026247.md).

- Special case: Edit control or editable Combo Box control with custom mask with an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable. If the control does not have focus when **InvalidInputListControl** is called, the text displayed in the control will first be formatted with the **FormatDuringEntry** property of the mask before checking its validity.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
