
## InvalidInputDetect (Function)

***In french: SaisieInvalideDétecte***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Detects and signals an error on required controls left empty and/or controls with invalid data.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Event "Allow closing" of a window
IF InvalidInputDetect() THEN
	RESULT False
ELSE 
	RETURN True
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = InvalidInputDetect([<Element used>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if at least one required control is left empty or contains invalid data,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. 




**`<Element used>: (Optional control name or window name)`**

Name of the control or window to be checked. If the control is a container (Tab control, Supercontrol, etc.), all its controls will be checked. 
If this parameter is not specified, all the controls in the current window will be checked.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Characteristics of the verification/detection of controls that require data input/contain invalid data
<a name="characteristics_the_verificationdetection_controls_that_require_data_inputcontain_invalid_data_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

The input will be checked in the following types of controls: 

- **Radio Button/Check Box control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that at least one option is selected.

- **Rating control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a rating has been selected.

- **Editable Combo Box**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been entered or selected in the combo box. 
	If an input mask has been used, the function checks that the entered data matches this mask. 
	If a custom mask with an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable is used, the verification is performed by executing the procedure associated with the **CheckIfValidInput** property of this mask.

- **Non-editable Combo Box**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been selected in the combo box. 

- **Edit control**: if the required input option has been enabled (or the [MandatoryInput](../Proprietes/1000026174.md) property is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u>), checks that a value has been entered or selected in the control. 
	If an input mask has been used, the function checks that the entered data matches this mask. If a custom mask with an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable is used, the verification is performed by executing the procedure associated with the **CheckIfValidInput** property of this mask.


Only active and visible controls are checked.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000104"></a>

- The function sets focus to the first control detected according to the tab order.

- You can customize the error display mode in the description window of the relevant controls.

- The error status will disappear once the entered data is modified by the user or through programming.

- To know which controls are required/contain invalid data without highlighting them, use [InvalidInputListControl](../WDLang1/1000026244.md).

- The [MandatoryInputMessage](../Proprietes/1000026176.md) and [InvalidInputMessage](../Proprietes/1000026245.md) properties are used to customize the error messages displayed in case of invalid/required input.

- Special case: Edit control or editable Combo Box control with input mask customized via an [InputMask](../WDLang1/1000024886.md) variable. If the control does not have focus when **InvalidInputDetect** is called, the text displayed in the control will first be formatted with the **FormatDuringEntry** property of the mask before checking its validity.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
