
## fCopyFileWebFolder (Function)

***In french: fCopieFichierRépertoireWeb***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Copies an image file from the data directory of application (or from one of its sub-directories) to the "_WEB" directory of application (or to one of its sub-directories).

**Caution**: To use this function, make sure the "Allow fCopyFileWebFolder and fDeleteFileWebFolder." option is checked in the "Advanced" tab of the WEBDEV administrator. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
fCopyFileWebFolder("TemporaryImage.png", "images/product.png")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = fCopyFileWebFolder(<Source file> , <Destination file>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the file was copied, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Source file>: (Character string)`**

File to copy. This parameter can be: 

- A name of file with its full path. 

- A name of file with its path relative to the data directory of the application. The data directory of the application is returned by [fDataDir](../WDLang1/3036001.md). 




**`<Destination file>: (Character string)`**

Destination file of the copy. This parameter can be: 

- A name of file with its full path. 

- A name of file with its path relative to the "_WEB" directory of the application. The "_WEB" directory of the application is returned by [fWebDir](../WDLang1/3036052.md). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- **fCopyFileWebFolder** copies one file at a time. 

- Wildcard characters (\*,?) are not allowed in the file name.

- Only the image file can be copied (the accepted extensions are jpg, jpeg, png, gif, bmp, tif, tiff and svg).

- If the destination directory is a subdirectory of the "_WEB" directory, this subdirectory is created if it does not exist.

- **Caution**: The copy is taken into account by the WEBDEV administrator on the server (WD280ADMIN.EXE). The Windows account running it must have sufficient rights to the target location of the copy.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280page.dll
