
## SpreadsheetModifyName (Function)

***In french: TableurModifieNom***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Modifies the name used to identify a cell in a Spreadsheet control.

Remarks: 

- Then, the names can be used in the formulas so that they are easier to understand. For example: "=PriceBT\*VAT" is clearer than = "=A1\*A2". 

- The names are proposed in the completion when typing formulas. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Creates a formula that references A1 and A2 with clearer names
SpreadsheetAddName(PSHEET_Spreadsheet1, "PriceBT", "$A$1")
SpreadsheetAddName(PSHEET_Spreadsheet1, "VAT", "$A$2")
SpreadsheetAddFormula(PSHEET_Spreadsheet1, "A3", "PriceBT*VAT")
SpreadsheetModifyName(PSHEET_Spreadsheet1, "VAT", "IntraVAT" ,"$A$2") 
// The formula of A3 becomes "PriceBT*IntraVAT"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`SpreadsheetModifyName(<Spreadsheet control> , <Cell name> [, <New name> [, <Cell> [, <Range> [, <Comment>]]]])`
---

**`<Spreadsheet control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Spreadsheet control to be used. 

**`<Cell name>: (Character string)`**

Current name of cell to modify. 

**`<New name>: (Optional character string)`**

New name for the cell. 

Caution: 

- This parameter must not correspond to a cell name ("A1" for example) or to a function name ("SUM" for example).

- This parameter must contain no space character. 

- **SpreadsheetModifyName** fails if the specified name is invalid or if it already exists: the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable is set to <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> and [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns the details of the error. 




**`<Cell>: (Optional character string)`**

Cell to name. 
Caution: Absolute coordinates must be used to identify the cell (for example: "$A$1"). 
Indeed, the coordinates are relative in a cell name. Using the notation "A1", "A2", ... may trigger errors of circular references. 

**`<Range>: (Optional integer)`**

Number of the worksheet where the name can be used. If this parameter is not specified or if it is set to 0, the name can be used in all the worksheets.

**`<Comment>: (Optional character string)`**

Comment associated with the cell name (up to 255 characters).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The names are not case sensitive (uppercase/lowercase characters)





<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
