
## ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous (Function)

***In french: ExécuteThreadPrincipalAsynchrone***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Executes a procedure in the main thread of the application without waiting for the end of its execution.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// From a secondary thread, interact with the user
ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous(UserInteractionProcedure, "Message")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous(<WLanguage procedure> [, <Parameter 1> [... [, <Parameter N>]]])`
---

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Procedure name)`**

Name of procedure to execute.

**`<Parameter 1>: (Optional)`**

Parameters that will be passed to the procedure. Caution: these parameters are passed by value (not by reference).



**`<Parameter N>: (Optional)`**

Parameters that will be passed to the procedure. Caution: these parameters are passed by value (not by reference).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode
<a name="operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

The main thread executes the procedure when it waits for user actions. 

Therefore, when the main thread of an application needs to execute procedures called by **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous**, the following rules must be complied with:

- the main thread must be highly available: critical sections must be short and localized, there must be no long processes if a secondary thread needs to call **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous**, there must be no semaphores or events that wait for synchronization objects.

- to avoid deadlocks, threads must not hold synchronization objects (critical sections, semaphores, events, etc.) when **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous** is called.




If the main thread is executing a process, it is not interrupted and the procedure is executed when the main thread waits for a user action again.

However, [Multitask](../WDLang1/3015004.md) can be used to interrupt a long process to handle the user actions and execute the procedures called by **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous**.

The call to **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous** is non-blocking: the rest of the code is executed regardless of whether the procedure has already been executed by the main thread. The return value of the procedure cannot be retrieved.

Caution: 

- **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous** cannot be used to call a procedure from a "parent" execution context. For example, a project procedure cannot be called from an external component.

- The details of the errors and exceptions from the executed procedure are retrieved in the calling thread where **ExecuteMainThreadAsynchronous** is called.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
