
## Telemetry: Method used to send data
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000113"></a>
Telemetry data is sent to the server regularly and is processed by the server every 2 hours. 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Configuring the method used to send data
<a name="configuring_the_method_used_send_data_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>


### Offline mode by default
<a name="offline_mode_default_ELTPARAGRAPHE000016"></a>

By default, telemetry works in "offline" mode: 

- If the information cannot be sent, it is kept until the next day at 11:59 PM.

- The information is kept on the disk and is therefore persistent if the application stops and restarts.

- If one set of data is sent successfully, all pending data from the day and the day before is sent. 

- Pending data from two days before or older are progressively deleted.




If offline mode is disabled, data is sent as follows:  

- If one attempt fails, attempt 3 more times. 

- If 3 consecutive attempts fail, telemetry is automatically disabled until the application is closed. 

- The next time the application is started, the number of attempts starts again at 3 .





### Configuring online mode
<a name="configuring_online_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

Use [TelemetryConfigure](../WDLang1/1000021913.md) to disable offline mode: 

```wl
TelemetryConfigure(tcOfflineMode, False)
```


In this case, if 3 consecutive attempts fail, telemetry is automatically disabled until the application is closed.
The number of attempts can be configured using [TelemetryConfigure](../WDLang1/1000021913.md):

```wl
TelemetryConfigure(tcNumberSendAttempts, 1)
```

The following values can be used: 

- 0: In this case, attempts are not counted. Data is sent every time even if the server does not respond. 

- 1: In this case, data is sent only once when the application is started. If this attempt fails, there will be no more attempts. 


You can also use other values (see details of [TelemetryConfigure](../WDLang1/1000021913.md)). 

By default, there are 3 attempts, and the attempt period is 1 hour. So, there are 3 hours. 
Remark: If the server does not respond within 3 hours, the action is stopped (it is considered that the server does not exist any more, or that nobody checks its status, no point in insisting).

To send data every half hour and stop if the server has not responded within 2 hours, the corresponding code is: 

```wl
TelemetryConfigure(tcOfflineMode, False)
TelemetryConfigure(tcMaximumPeriodCollection, 30 min)
TelemetryConfigure(tcNumberSendAttempts, 4)
```



