


## &lt;picLayer variable&gt;.Blur (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable picCalque&gt;.Flou***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Blurs the entire given area in a variable of type [picLayer](../WDLang1/1000024604.md).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyImage is WDPic = "Test.bmp"
MyLayer is picLayer

// Blurs the layer
MyLayer.Blur()

IMG_MyDrawing = MyImage
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Blurring an entire image

`<picLayer image>.Blur([<Radius>])`
---

**`<picLayer image>: (picLayer variable)`**

Name of the [picLayer](../WDLang1/1000024604.md) variable to be used.

**`<Radius>: (Optional integer)`**

Radius around a point in which nearby points are taken into account for blurring. The larger the radius, the more blurred the image will be and the longer the blur will take. The default value is 10.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Blurring an area of an image

`<picLayer image>.Blur(<Area to blur> [, <Radius>])`
---

**`<picLayer image>: (picLayer variable)`**

Name of the [picLayer](../WDLang1/1000024604.md) variable to be used.

**`<Area to blur>: (Rectangle or Polygon variable)`**

Image area to be blurred. This area can be defined by 

- a variable of type [Rectangle](../Motscles/1514079.md) (for simple areas).

- a variable of type [Polygon](../WDLang1/1000025624.md) (for complex areas). 
	Remarks: 

	- There is no need to close the polygon (the coordinates of last point do not have to be equal to the coordinates of first point). The polygon is automatically "closed".

	- A polygon can have a maximum of 100,000 points.





Coordinates are specified with respect to the upper-left corner of the image (coordinates: (0.0)).

**`<Radius>: (Optional integer)`**

Radius around a point in which nearby points are taken into account for blurring. The larger the radius, the more blurred the image will be and the longer the blur will take. The default value is 10.



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280pnt.dll
