


## &lt;Toolbar&gt;.Dock (Function)

***In french: &lt;Barre d'outils&gt;.Attache***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Docks a Toolbar control to a window or changes the anchoring position of a docked Toolbar control.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
TBAR_Toolbar1.Dock(barUp)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Toolbar control>.Dock([<Docked side> [, <X> , <Y>]])`
---

**`<Toolbar control>: (Control name)`**

Name of Toolbar control to use.

**`<Docked side>: (Optional constant)`**

Toolbar control docking side:


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *barDown* | The Toolbar control is docked at the bottom of the main window. |
| *barLeft* | The Toolbar control is docked to the left of the main window. |
| *barRight* | The Toolbar control is docked to the right of the main window. |
| *barUp*<br>(Default value) | The Toolbar control is docked at the top of the main window. |



**`<X>: (Optional integer)`**

X-coordinate of the upper-left corner of Toolbar control. This X-coordinate is equal to 0 by default. 
If the *barLeft* constant is used, &lt;X&gt; is passed for information only. The Toolbar control is always docked to the left or to the right. If several Toolbar controls are docked, the specified Toolbar control is inserted as close as possible to the &lt;Y&gt; position specified.

**`<Y>: (Optional integer)`**

Y-coordinate of the upper-left corner of the toolbar. This Y-coordinate is equal to 0 by default. 
If the *barUp* constant is used, &lt;Y&gt; is passed for information only. The Toolbar control is always docked at the top or at the bottom. If several Toolbar controls are docked, the specified Toolbar control is inserted as close as possible to the &lt;Y&gt; position specified.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks
The keyword [MyWindow](../Motscles/1511004.md) must not be used: 

- in the events associated with the Toolbar control. 

- in the events associated with the controls in the toolbar.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
