
## TimeToInteger (Function)

***In french: HeureVersEntier***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Converts a time to an integer. This integer corresponds to the number of hundredths of a second elapsed between &lt;Time&gt; and 00 hours 00 minutes 00 seconds and 00 hundredths of a second.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Wait 4 seconds
Start, t are int
Start = TimeToInteger(TimeSys())
LOOP
	t = TimeToInteger(TimeSys()) - Start
	// Display the time elapsed between 0 and 4s
	Trace(IntegerToTime(t))
	// Exit if the 4 seconds have elapsed
	IF t > 400 THEN BREAK
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = TimeToInteger(<Time>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Number of hundredths of a second elapsed between &lt;Hour&gt; and 00 hours 00 minutes 00 seconds and 00 hundredths of a second,

- 0 if an error occurs.




**`<Time>: (Character string, Date or DateTime variable)`**

Time to convert. This time can correspond to: 

- a character string in HHMMSSCC format (HH corresponds to hours, MM to minutes, SS to seconds and CC to hundredths of a second). 

- a character string in YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCC format (YYYY corresponds to the year, MM to the month, DD to the day, HH to hours, mm to minutes, SS to seconds and CC to hundredths of a second). In this case, only the time is taken into account. 

- a Time variable. 

- a DateTime variable. In this case, only the time is taken into account.


The function returns 0 if this parameter correspond an empty string ("").  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- The time validity passed as parameter is checked. An error message is displayed if the time is invalid.

- **TimeToInteger** and [TimeDifference](../WDLang1/3027018.md) can be used to calculate the number of hundredths of a second elapsed between two dates. 

- Midnight corresponds to 00 hours, 00 minutes, 00 seconds and 00 hundredths of a second.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280std.dll
