
## ErrorPropagate (Function)

***In french: ErreurPropage***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Propagates a non-fatal error that can be processed by the calling code if the management of non-fatal errors is enabled for this code (in the code editor or by [ErrorChangeParameter](../WDLang1/3034009.md)).

The error is processed by the higher level if:

- an error process was enabled by the higher level.

- the error is not managed by IF ... NOT or by the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable.





<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Propagating a non-fatal error (adding a message, if necessary)

`ErrorPropagate([<Message>])`
---

**`<Message>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional message that can be added to the error. This message is inserted at the beginning of the error.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Propagating a non-fatal error by changing the error number (and adding a message, if necessary)

`ErrorPropagate(<Number> [, <Message>])`
---

**`<Number>: (Integer)`**

Error number, defined by the developer. This number must be between 1 and 1000. This number replaces the existing error number. 

**`<Message>: (Optional character string)`**

Additional message that can be added to the error. This message is inserted at the beginning of the error.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### How to get information about the error processed? 
<a name="how_get_information_about_the_error_processed_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

[ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns information about the error.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Use example 
<a name="use_example_ELTPARAGRAPHE000094"></a>

Purpose: Encapsulating **fOpen** in a procedure while implementing the error of fOpen (if it occurs): 


```wl
PROCEDURE OpenFile(LOCAL sFileName is string)

fOpen(sFileName)
IF ErrorOccurred = True THEN
	ErrorPropagate()
	RETURN		// or RESULT
END
...
```


Then, you have the ability to call the **OpenFile** procedure: 


```wl
...
OpenFile(sFileName)
IF ErrorOccurred = True THEN
	// process the error
END
```


**Remark**: An equivalent process can be performed with the mode for automatic management of errors.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### Special case
<a name="special_case_ELTPARAGRAPHE000110"></a>

The error handling mechanism, whether it is managed automatically (via the [error handling window](../WDLang1/3034010.md)) or programmatically (with [ErrorChangeParameter](../WDLang1/3034009.md)), is not triggered if the WLanguage function or the user procedure is in one of the following cases:


```txt
IF NOT <Function or procedure> THEN
	// process the error
END
```



```txt
<Function or procedure>
IF ErrorOccurred = True THEN
	// process the error
END
```


The mechanism considers that the error is processed by programming and the automatic process is not triggered.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280vm.dll
