


## WinRateDDW (Function)

***In french: FenTauxGFI***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Gets and sets the dimming rate for windows that use the DDW (Dim Disabled Windows) feature.

The DDW feature is used to automatically dim disabled windows. For more details, see [Dim disabled windows](../Editeurs/9000071.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// -- Project initialization
// Change dimming rate
WinRateDDW(40)
// Enable the DDW feature for all the application windows
WinActivateDDW(True)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Getting the dimming rate

`<Result> = WinRateDDW()`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Current dimming rate (between 0 and 100). The default dimming rate is set to 18%.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Changing the dimming rate

`<Result> = WinRateDDW(<Dimming rate>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Initial dimming rate (between 0 and 100).

**`<Dimming rate>: (Integer)`**

New dimming rate (between 0 and 100). The maximum value (100) will be used if the specified value is greater than 100. **WinRateDDW** will have no effect if a value less than 0 is specified. The default dimming rate is set to 18%.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Configuration of the end-user computers
<a name="configuration_the_enduser_computers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

Depending on the configuration of the end-user computers, the DDW feature may have no effect.

Indeed, the DDW feature is affected by the characteristics of the video card, the speed of the processor, ...

If a problem occurs, ask the end users to update the driver of their video card.

**Remark**: To operate, the end-user computers must:

- have a display mode greater than 256 colors.

- be in 32-bit or 64-bit mode.

- be running Windows 2000 or later.

- use the maximum level of "Hardware acceleration" for the video card (advanced display properties of the computer).



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Enabling the DDW feature (DDW)
<a name="enabling_the_ddw_feature_ddw_ELTPARAGRAPHE000063"></a>

To enable or disable the DDW feature, use [WinActivateDDW](../WDLang1/3038056.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
