
## DelayBeforeClosing (Function)

***In french: DélaiAvantFermeture***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Limits the display duration of a window or dialog box. 

If no user action is performed, when the specified amount of time is reached:

- for a window, the code of a window button will be run. 

- for a dialog box, the dialog box is automatically closed. For question or confirmation dialog boxes, the default button corresponds to the expected answer.




The amount of time specified for the automatic closing is ignored in the following cases:

- when the user clicks a button.

- if the user modifies a control.

- if the user presses any keyboard key.




**Remark**: The following dialog boxes are taken into account:

- information or error ([Info](../WDLang1/3021011.md), [Error](../WDLang1/3021013.md), [Warning](../WDLang1/3021009.md)). 

- question ([YesNo](../WDLang1/3021005.md), [Dialog](../WDLang1/3021015.md)).

- confirmation ([Confirm](../WDLang1/3021007.md), [OKCancel](../WDLang1/3021004.md)).




 By default, the dialog boxes are locking: the application is locked as long as these windows are opened. 


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Close the dialog box in 2 seconds
DelayBeforeClosing(200)
Error("The application will be ended")
EndProgram()
```


<a name="Example2"></a>



```wl
// Run the code of BTN_CloseButton in 5 seconds
DelayBeforeClosing(MyWindow, BTN_Close, 500)
// The code of BTN_Close button calls the Close function
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Timeout before closing the dialog boxes

`<Result> = DelayBeforeClosing([<Timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Timeout that was previously defined (before the modification performed by **DelayBeforeClosing**).

**`<Timeout>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

New timeout before closing the dialog boxes of application (expressed in hundredths of a second). This parameter can be: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 


If this parameter is set to 0 or if it is not specified, the timeout is endless (default case): the dialog boxes are not automatically closed.  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Timeout before closing the windows

`<Result> = DelayBeforeClosing(<Name of the window> , <Button name> [, <Timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**

Timeout that was previously defined (before the modification performed by **DelayBeforeClosing**).

**`<Name of the window>: (Character string)`**

Name of window for which an automatic process will be managed.

**`<Button name>: (Character string)`**

Name of button whose code will be run after the specified timeout. If the window must be closed, the button code must contain [Close](../WDLang1/3038018.md).

**`<Timeout>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Amount of time before running the click code of specified button (expressed in hundredths of a second). 
This parameter can be: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 


If this parameter is set to 0 or if it is not specified, the timeout is endless (default case): the specified window will not be automatically closed and the timeout that was previously defined is canceled.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Scope of DelayBeforeClosing
<a name="scope_delaybeforeclosing_ELTPARAGRAPHE000136"></a>

- **Dialog boxes**: **DelayBeforeClosing** is taken into account for all the dialog boxes opened by the application, regardless of the code where this function is called. 
	To restore a standard operating mode, use **DelayBeforeClosing** and specify no timeout.

- **Window**: **DelayBeforeClosing** only applies to the specified window. The function is disabled when this window is closed: if this window is re-opened ([Open](../WDLang1/3038035.md)), the window will not be automatically closed. You need to call **DelayBeforeClosing** again.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
UI Code
## Component:
wd280obj.dll
