
## FinCurrentVal (Function)

***In french: FinValActuelle***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the current value of investment.

**Reminder**: The current value corresponds to the sum that represents a set of future payments at today's date. For example, when you get a loan, the amount of the loan represents the current value for the lender.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Current value of investment. The repayment value is set to 5000 Euros.
// This investment must bring in 50000 Euros per year during 10 years.
// The interest rate is set to 8%.
ResCurrentVal = FinCurrentVal(-5000, 50000, 10, 8)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = FinCurrentVal([<Payment Value> [, <Future Value> [, <Number of periods> [, <Rate> [, <Start>]]]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Real or currency)`**

Current value of investment.

**`<Payment Value>: (Optional real or currency)`**

Payment value for each period (0 by default). This payment is identical over the entire duration. This value must be negative.

**`<Future Value>: (Optional real or currency)`**

Future value (capitalized value). This is the amount after the last payment (0 by default).

**`<Number of periods>: (Optional integer)`**

Total number of periods in the investment (1 by default).

**`<Rate>: (Optional real)`**

Interest rate of investment expressed in percentage (1 by default). For example, for a 5% rate, this parameter will be set to 5.

**`<Start>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the payments must be made at the beginning of period (default value),

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if the payments must be made at the end of period.  






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Time unit
<a name="time_unit_ELTPARAGRAPHE000086"></a>

The calculations can be performed according to months or years. &lt;Rate&gt; and &lt;Period&gt; must correspond to the same unit.

Therefore, to get the current value of a 4-year loan, paid off monthly, with a yearly interest rate set to 10%, the units can be expressed in months:

- &lt;Period&gt; = 4\*12, 

- &lt;Rate&gt; = 10% / 12



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Managing errors
<a name="managing_errors_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

**Caution**: **FinCurrentVal** returns no error code. To determine if this function has generated errors, use [FinError](../WDLang1/3050071.md). To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280mat.dll
