


## TableSelectMinus (Function)

***In french: TableSelectMoins***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deselects a row from a Table or TreeView Table control. The selected row corresponds to the current row on which the selection bar is displayed.

<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Deselect row #5 i n the Table control "TABLE_Product"
TableSelectMinus(TABLE_Product, 5)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`TableSelectMinus(<Table control> [, <Index 1> [... [, <Index N>]]])`
---

**`<Table control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the control to be used. This control can correspond to: 

- a Table control. 

- a TreeView Table control. 


If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the control to which the current process belongs will be used.

**`<Index 1>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the first row to deselect. If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified control are deselected. **TableSelectMinus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to a row that is not selected. You can get the index of the selected row with [TableSelect](../WDLang1/3074020.md).
The function has no effect if this parameter corresponds to -1.




**`<Index N>: (Optional integer)`**

Index of the Nth row to deselect. If this parameter is not specified, all the rows found in the specified Table control are deselected. **TableSelectMinus** has no effect if this parameter corresponds to a row that is not selected. You can get the index of the selected row with [TableSelect](../WDLang1/3074020.md).




<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000113"></a>

**TableSelectMinus** can be used on:

- a Table or TreeView Table control based on a data file.

- a Table or TreeView Table control populated programmatically.

- a single-selection or multi-selection control. 
	




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280obj.dll
