


## ArrayAddLine (Function)

***In french: TableauAjouteLigne***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a row at the end:

- of a one- or two-dimensional WLanguage array.

- of an advanced two-dimensional array property (xlsDocument, etc.).




**Remark**: This function is equivalent to [AddLine](../WDLang1/1000017349.md).






<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
MyArray is array of 2 by 3 strings
ArrayAddLine(MyArray, "A", "B", "C")
ArrayAddLine(MyArray, "a", "b", "c")
ArrayAddLine(MyArray, "D", "E", "F")
// Display the content of the 3rd row (the two first rows are empty)
Trace(MyArray[3,1], MyArray[3,2], MyArray[3,3])
// Displays "A B C"
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
MyArray is array of 2 by 3 strings
MyArray[1,1] = "A"
MyArray[1,2] = "B"
MyArray[1,3] = "C"
MyArray[2,1] = "a"
MyArray[2,2] = "b"
MyArray[2,3] = "c"
ArrayAddLine(MyArray, "D", "E", "F")
// Display the content of the 3rd row
Trace(MyArray[3,1], MyArray[3,2], MyArray[3,3]) 
// Displays "D E F"
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = ArrayAddLine(<WLanguage array> [, <Element column 1> [... [, <Element column N>]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Index of the added row, 

- -1 if an error occurred.




**`<WLanguage array>: (Array)`**

Name of the Array variable to use. This array must be a one-dimensional array or a two-dimensional array.

**`<Element column 1>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the row that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a column in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added to the array. The columns are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding column is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.



**`<Element column N>: (Type of array elements, optional)`**

Element of the row that will be added into the specified array. Each element corresponds to a column in the array. The type of the added element must be compatible with the type of relevant column.
If none of these parameters is specified, an empty row is added to the array. The columns are initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.
If one of these parameters is not specified, the corresponding column is initialized with the default value of the type of the other array elements.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Adding a row to a WLanguage array
<a name="adding_row_wlanguage_array_ELTPARAGRAPHE000119"></a>

When **ArrayAddLine** is called:

- the number of rows in the array is automatically increased to include the new row.

- the number of columns in the array is not increased. You must: 

	- declare the array with the proper number of columns (second dimension of the array).

	- dynamically modify the number of columns with [Dimension](../WDLang1/3013022.md). 




- the elements are converted (if necessary) into the type of the other array elements.


**Remark**: When declaring an array of N by M elements, this array contains N empty rows. For example, the array declared below contains 3 empty rows.


```wl
MyArray is array of 3 by 2 strings
```
Rows added using **ArrayAddLine** are automatically added after the existing rows in the array.
In our example, the added row corresponds to the 4th row.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Adding a row to an advanced array property
<a name="adding_row_advanced_array_property_ELTPARAGRAPHE000151"></a>

When **ArrayAddLine** is called:

- the advanced variable must be created.

- the advanced type must have an enumerator of modifiable collection type.

- the advanced type is automatically enlarged to receive the new row.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000166"></a>

- This function cannot be used on:

	- non-created arrays.

	- fixed arrays.









- To add a row at a given position, use [ArrayInsertLine](../WDLang1/3075014.md) or [Insert](../WDLang1/1000017351.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
