
## SemaphoreStart (Function)

***In french: SémaphoreDébut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Locks the current thread until the semaphore is opened (which means until a "free" spot becomes available in the protected section).

**Reminder**: Semaphores are used to define a protected code section that can only be run by a specific number of threads.




<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = SemaphoreStart(<Semaphore name> [, <Maximum timeout>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the thread is allowed to enter in the code section,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise (maximum duration reached).




**`<Semaphore name>: (Character string)`**

Name of semaphore to use. If the semaphore does not exist, it is created with the default options (see [SemaphoreCreate](../WDLang1/3077012.md))

**`<Maximum timeout>: (Optional integer or optional duration)`**

Maximum timeout in hundredths of a second. 

- At the end of the specified duration, if the thread did not receive the authorization, &lt;Result&gt; is set to <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>. 

- If this parameter is not specified or if it corresponds to the *Infinite* constant, the wait is infinite.

- If this parameter is set to 0, &lt;Result&gt; corresponds to the status of the semaphore. The thread is not pending. 


This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of hundredths of a second,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Equivalence
<a name="equivalence_ELTPARAGRAPHE000100"></a>


```wl
SemaphoreStart("SemaphoreName")
```


is equivalent to: 


```wl
CriticalSectionStart("MyCriticalSection")
```


By default, **SemaphoreStart** creates a semaphore limited to a single thread.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280vm.dll
