
## Native PostgreSQL Connector: Specific features and remarks
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000296"></a>
The following paragraphs present the main aspects and specific features of the Native PostgreSQL Connector.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Main remarks
<a name="main_remarks_ELTTEXTE000320"></a>


### Required versions
<a name="required_versions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000018"></a>

**Caution**: This version of the Native PostgreSQL Connector works with:

- WINDEV 28 or WEBDEV 28.

- PostgreSQL from version 7.4 (tests have been run with version 8.3.6 and version 9.1.3).



<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Using WLanguage commands in SQL queries
<a name="using_wlanguage_commands_sql_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000032"></a>

WLanguage commands cannot be used in SQL queries. 
<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### Managing large files
<a name="managing_large_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000039"></a>

When handling large files, all the records are loaded in memory. To reduce memory usage, it is recommended to:

- use a filter ([HFilter](../WDLang4/3044100.md)) before initializing an iteration ([HReadFirst](../WDLang4/3044051.md) / [HReadLast](../WDLang4/3044140.md), ...).

- use queries whose selection conditions are selective enough.

- avoid performing searches.



<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### Support for Unicode with the HFSQL functions
<a name="support_for_unicode_with_the_hfsql_functions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

To use Unicode strings, the "UTF8" charset must be specified when creating the PostgreSQL database. In this case, all the strings will be Unicode strings.

**When Unicode is supported on the connection (default mode),** the text items of the queries run with the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant are in Unicode format. If a Unicode string is assigned to an ANSI string, the conversion is automatically performed by WINDEV and WEBDEV by using the character set defined in [ChangeCharset](../WDLang1/3054001.md).

**Caution**: [ChangeCharset](../WDLang1/3054001.md) must be used BEFORE opening the connection. The connection must be closed and reopened after each call to [ChangeCharset](../WDLang1/3054001.md) in order for the data to be properly converted to the specified character set.

**If the connection is ANSI** ("WD Unicode Support = 0" in the extended information specified by [HDescribeConnection](../WDLang4/3044205.md) or [HOpenConnection](../WDLang4/3044107.md)), the type of the text items for the queries run with the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant is ANSI.

For more details on Unicode or ANSI connections, see [Programming a PostgreSQL database with the HFSQL functions](../WDPostgreSQL/5518003.md).
<a name="NOTE2_5"></a>


### Managing character sets with the SQL functions
<a name="managing_character_sets_with_the_sql_functions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000092"></a>

All the exchanges are performed in the current character set (charset). An error occurs during the connection if the server does not support the conversions from or to the current character set.

In this case, [ChangeCharset](../WDLang1/3054001.md) must be used before [SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md) to select a character set compatible with the server.
<a name="NOTE2_6"></a>


### SSL certificates
<a name="ssl_certificates_ELTPARAGRAPHE000109"></a>

The Native PostgreSQL Connector supports the connections that use SSL certificates. 

To support the connections that use SSL certificates: 

1. **On the server**: Use a PostgreSQL server that supports the SSL connections. See the PostgreSQL documentation to find out how to generate the SSL certificate files and how to configure the server to only allow the SSL connections. 

2. **On the client computer**: Use a PostgreSQL client layer compiled with the support for SSL connections. 

3. By default, the PostgreSQL client layer will find the SSL certificate files in the directory: %APPDATA%\\postgresql. For example: "C:\\Users\\Florence\\appData\\roaming\\postgresql". You have the ability to rename and place these files in different directory by specifying their locations in the connection string via the keywords: SSL Cret, SSL Key, SSL CA. 

4. Use the keywords corresponding to the SSL options in the connection information. The recognized keywords are: 

	- SSL Key

	- SSL Cert

	- SSL CA

	- SSL CRL

	- SSL Mode







These parameters correspond to the parameters of same name found in **PQconnectdb**. 

Remark: By default, the Native Connector tries to open an SSL connection then a non-SSL connection in case of failure. 
To check the opening mode of the connection, add the "SSL Mode" keyword to the extended information of the connection, followed by the desired mode.

Example of extended information to use the default certificates : The postgresql.crt, postgresql.key, Root.crt files are found in the %APPDATA%\\postgresql directory: 


```txt
Server Port=5432;SSL Mode = verify-full
```


Example of extended information to use renamed certificates:


```txt
Server Port=5432; 
SSL CA = C:\Certificats SSL\CA.crt ; 
SSL Cert = C:\Certificats SSL\my.crt ; 
SSL Key = C:\Certificats SSL\my.key ; 
SSL Mode = verify-full
```


For more details, see [Optional connection information](../WDLang4/9000124.md). 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Main specific features
<a name="main_specific_features_ELTTEXTE000374"></a>


### Locking records
<a name="locking_records_ELTPARAGRAPHE000150"></a>

The lock options (***hLockWrite*** and ***hLockReadWrite*** constants) that can be used with HFSQL functions are not supported. In fact, lock operations are linked to transactions. A lock can only be removed once the transaction is completed, and there can be no lock without a transaction.  
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Identical records
<a name="identical_records_ELTPARAGRAPHE000157"></a>

The Native PostgreSQL Connector cannot differentiate between two identical records (which means with identical values for all items, excluding memo items).

When a record is modified or deleted, all the identical records will be modified or deleted.
<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Array items
<a name="array_items_ELTPARAGRAPHE000166"></a>

The Array items are not supported by the Native Connector. If you are using an array item, only the value of index 1 in the array will be handled by HFSQL functions (read/write).
<a name="NOTE3_4"></a>


### Partial indexing of memos and full-text indexing
<a name="partial_indexing_memos_and_fulltext_indexing_ELTPARAGRAPHE000173"></a>

The partial indexing of memos as well as the full-text indexing are not taken into account:

- when importing PostgreSQL tables into the analysis.

- when [HCreation](../WDLang4/3044255.md) is used.




If these features are defined in the analysis, they will be taken into account only when running the SQL queries (with the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant).
<a name="NOTE3_5"></a>


### Nested queries
<a name="nested_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000188"></a>

The correction of nested queries is not supported in this version of Native PostgreSQL Connector. However, you have the ability to use the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Specific features for the HFSQL and SQL functions
<a name="specific_features_for_the_hfsql_and_sql_functions_ELTTEXTE000422"></a>
The specific features for using the HFSQL and SQL functions with Native PostgreSQL Connector are as follows:

| Specific features | Affected functions |
| --- | --- |
| Multi-file query: <br>**HAdd**, **HModify** and **HDelete** are not supported. | [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md)<br>[HModify](../WDLang4/3044042.md)<br>[HDelete](../WDLang4/3044018.md) |


<a name="NOTE4_2"></a>


### Managing automatic identifiers
<a name="managing_automatic_identifiers_ELTPARAGRAPHE000220"></a>

The management of the *hForceIDAuto* and *hSetIDAuto* constants is identical to the management performed by the HFSQL engine.

To reset the start value of the sequence of an automatic identifier after calling [HAdd](../WDLang4/3044147.md) with the *hForceIDAuto* constant, execute the following query with the *hQueryWithoutCorrection* constant:


```txt
ALTER SEQUENCE "<FileName>_<ItemName>_seq" 
RESTART WITH [ Start identifier ]
```


Example: In order for the next automatic Identifier managed by PostgreSQL to start from 5, the following query must be used:


```txt
ALTER SEQUENCE "MyFile_AutoID_seq" RESTART WITH 5
```

<a name="NOTE4_3"></a>


### Unsupported SQL commands
<a name="unsupported_sql_commands_ELTPARAGRAPHE000238"></a>

The following SQL commands are not supported on a PostgreSQL data source:

- TOP

- CHARACTER_LENGTH

- BIN

- OCT

- HEX

- LOG10

- PATINDEX

- LEFT(String, length)





