


## WDAPI: Help about the APIs
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000137"></a>
WDAPI simplifies the use of Windows APIs in a WINDEV application. WDAPI generates the WLanguage code and structures allowing the use of a given Windows API.

WDAPI DOES NOT document the operating mode of each Windows API of the system!

However, WDAPI gives you the ability to directly run a site or a document (of your choice) corresponding to the documentation of the Windows APIs. If a function, a structure or a constant is selected in WDAPI, you can display the corresponding help page.

**Remark**: The list of Windows APIs supplied with WDAPI is NOT exhaustive.

**Reminder**: WDAPI can be started from WDTool: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Utilities" group, click "WDTool".

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Getting help about a feature of the Windows API
<a name="getting_help_about_feature_the_windows_api_ELTTEXTE000161"></a>


### Configuring WDAPI to get help about a function, structure or constant of the Windows API
<a name="configuring_wdapi_get_help_about_function_structure_constant_the_windows_api_ELTPARAGRAPHE000038"></a>

To configure WDAPI to get help about a function, structure or constant of the Windows API: 

1. Select the "Favorite sites" pane.

2. Specify the address corresponding to the site proposing the help about the requested element (function, structure or constant). You can:

	- Select an address found in the list.

	- Add a new address. To do so, enter the new address and click "Add".







The address can also correspond to:

- an Internet address (for example: http://www.myfavoritesite.com).

- a full path to a document (for example: C:\\My Documents\\APIInfo.doc).

- an application (for example: \\\\APIStation\\Tools\\ApiPlus.exe). 




**This address can directly open the site on the help of the selected element (function, constant or structure).**

If the name of the element is used in the initial address, the name of the function, constant or structure must be replaced with the [%FUNCTION%] keyword in the initial address. 
For example:


```txt
http://www.apifunctions.com/found.asp?function=[%FUNCTION%]
```


If the initial address is using the first letter of the element (alphabetical index for example), the letter must be replaced with the [%STARTFUNCT%] keyword in the initial address.
For example:


```txt
http://www.apifunctions.com/found.asp?function=[%STARTFUNCT%]
```

<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Getting help about a function, structure or constant of the Windows API
<a name="getting_help_about_function_structure_constant_the_windows_api_ELTPARAGRAPHE000083"></a>

To get help about a function, structure or constant of the Windows API: 

1. Select a function (or a structure or a variable) in WDAPI.

2. Click the "Start the link to my API help site" link.


The site selected in the "Preferred sites" pane is automatically started.


