
## Native DB2 Connector : Programming with SQL functions
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000126"></a>
The use of SQL functions to handle DB2 data does not require importing the file structure into the analysis. However, the data must be handled by queries only. The content of the DB2 files cannot be read directly.

**Remark**: For more details, see [the limitations regarding the use of Native DB2 Connector](../WDDB2/5510007.md).

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Programming
<a name="programming_ELTTEXTE000150"></a>


### 1. Opening the connection
<a name="1_opening_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000023"></a>

[SQLConnect](../WDLang4/3072005.md) opens a connection to a DB2 database via the Native Connector. The type of database used (DB2 in this case) must be passed as parameter to **SQLConnect**.

The database name corresponds to the name of the DB2 server (or to its alias).


```wl
ConnectionNum = SQLConnect("DB2Database", "sa", "", "", "DB2")
```

<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### 2. Running queries
<a name="2_running_queries_ELTPARAGRAPHE000036"></a>

The queries are run by [SQLExec](../WDLang4/3072007.md). **SQLExec** expects the text of the SQL query as parameter, as well as the name that will be given to this query.


```wl
SQLExec("SELECT LASTNAME, FIRSTNAME, EXTENSION, PHOTO FROM CUSTOMER", "QRY1")
```

<a name="NOTE2_3"></a>


### 3. Retrieving the result
<a name="3_retrieving_the_result_ELTPARAGRAPHE000048"></a>

Several methods can be used to retrieve the result:

- [SQLFirst](../WDLang4/3072017.md): Retrieves the result and starts an [SQLFirst/SQLCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md) browse.

- [SQLTable](../WDLang4/3072031.md): Retrieves the result of the query in a Table control populated programmatically of the WINDEV application or WEBDEV site. The result of the query can be retrieved by partial Fetch.

- [SQLFetch](../WDLang4/3072011.md): Used to browse the different lines of the query result. The browse performed in the query result is an [SQLFetch/SQLGetCol](../WDLang4/3072025.md) browse.




[SQLLock](../WDLang4/3072003.md) is used to lock the table records or the records selected by the query.
<a name="NOTE2_4"></a>


### 4. Closing the connection
<a name="4_closing_the_connection_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

[SQLClose](../WDLang4/3072015.md) is used to close the connection to the database once all the necessary queries have been run.


