
## WDTRAD options
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000188"></a>
The options of WDTRAD can be configured via "Edit .. Preferences". 

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Available options
<a name="available_options_ELTTEXTE000212"></a>


### General options
<a name="general_options_ELTPARAGRAPHE000017"></a>

WDTRAD offers the following options: 

- **Show non-translated resources only**: If this option is enabled, only the untranslated resources will be displayed if the translation file was already translated. 

- **Show row numbers**: If this option is enabled, all the resources found in the translation file will be numbered. 

- **Hierarchical display of resources**: If this option is enabled, sorting will be done for each level of hierarchy. If this option is not enabled, sorting will be performed on the entire document. 

- **Load all document languages**: If this option is enabled, a second reference language can be loaded. Caution: this option can make resources load more slowly. 
	Remark: This second reference language may be useful: 

	- to check the wording of certain sentences (choose "state" or "status" from a French reference text ("état"). By displaying the reference text in a 2nd language such as Spanish, there is no more ambiguity).

	- to solve the problem of lexical categories with certain words. 




- **Manage bookmarks**: This option allows you to: 

	- view the different bookmarks available,

	- add and modify a bookmark by specifying its title and the color associated with it. 





### Translation options
<a name="translation_options_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

The options are as follows: 

- **Considered as being translated when identical**: If this option is checked, the identical resources in the different languages will be considered as being already translated. 
	For example, the "Note" resource is identical in English and in French. If this option is checked: 

	- the English resource will not be displayed on an orange background

	- the resource will be considered as being translated in the statistics for file translation. 




- **Allow "full-text" search**: By default, the type of search performed in the dictionary is "Starts with", "Contains", ... A more complex search can be performed if this option is checked. This search mode can be used to find sections of sentences used in a different context.  

- **Save all translated languages**: By default, when saving a resource in the dictionary, only the languages currently used in WDTRAD are proposed. If this option is checked, all the languages supported by the dictionary will be proposed when an element is added into this dictionary.

- **Real-time statistics**: By default, statistics are calculated when the file is saved. This option allows you to recalculate the statistics for each translation. 

- **Instant translation search**: By default, you must double-click on a resource to search for its translation in the available dictionaries. If this option is checked, simply select the resource to launch the search in the dictionary. 
	Caution: If a paid Web dictionary is used, a search can be launched on that dictionary (and therefore generate fees).  

- Web dictionaries: 

	- Google: If this option is checked, it is necessary to specify the Google API key to use Google Translate. The Google translation will be proposed for each translation search or only if the resource has not been found in the dictionary (option "Use only when no WDTRAD translation is found"). 

	- DeepL: If this option is checked, it is necessary to specify the Google API key to use DeepL. DeepL translation will be proposed for each translation search or only if the resource has not been found in the dictionary ("Use when no WDTRAD translation is found"). 


 Remarks: 

- The arrows to the right of the dictionary list allow you to define priorities when searching for translations. If the translation is found in the first Web dictionary, there will be no searches in the following ones. 

- Remember to consult the licenses and terms of use of the translation software used, particularly the invoicing terms and conditions. 

- The option "Protect sequences such as %1, &lt;%1!s!&gt; or even [%variable%] in the strings to translate" allows you to prevent the selected Web dictionary from translating these elements. 

- Custom terminologies: The "Manage terminologies" button allows you to manage the dictionary and terminology. You can: 

	- generate statistics for the dictionary:  number of resources, author, ...

	- reindex the dictionary if necessary ("Reindex" button). This option is recommended when a large number of resources have been modified or added to the dictionary. 

	- Manage custom terminologies. 

	- Search in the dictionary. 

	- See elements recently added to the dictionary. 







### Keyboard layout and input
<a name="keyboard_layout_and_input_ELTPARAGRAPHE000108"></a>

The options are as follows: 

- **Allow editing source texts**: If this option is checked, the translator will also have the ability to modify the texts of the reference version (to correct the typos for example). 

- **Open form mode automatically**:  If this option is checked, the form mode will be automatically used when modifying or typing a resource. 

- **Enable the spelling checker**: This option is used to enable the spelling checker. You must: 

	- install OpenOffice 2.0 (or later) on the computer where WDTRAD is used. 

	- install the different dictionaries of OpenOffice. 




- **Automatically change keyboard language**: This option installs and enables the missing keyboards in Windows (from Windows Vista). 





### Backup
<a name="backup_ELTPARAGRAPHE000133"></a>

The options are as follows: 

- **Enable automatic backup (every 10 minutes)**: If this option is checked, the reference file and the translation file will be saved every 10 minutes (by default, the backup is performed when clicking the "Save" button or when closing WDTRAD). 





