


## Overview of external languages
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Principle
<a name="principle_ELTTEXTE000155"></a>
WINDEV can also be used to create elements that will be managed in the programs written in C, C++, Pascal, Visual Basic, Cobol, ...

All you have to do is call the WINDEV elements from the external language. This call can be done from a program (".EXE" file) or from a library (".DLL" or ".OCX" file) compiled in external language.

To call a WINDEV element from an external language, use [CallWD](../LangageExt/7510001.md).

To manage an HFSQL data file from an external language, use the [HFSQL functions of WLanguage](../WDLang4/3044156.md).

**Remark**: You also have the ability to use processes written in external language (as compiled libraries) in a WINDEV application. To do so, you must compile a library (".DLL" or ".OCX" file) in external language and call the processes of this library via the WLanguage [API](../WDLang1/3014005.md) or [CallDLL32](../WDLang1/3014003.md) function.


**Caution**: WINDEV can only be used to compile WLanguage code.

The available languages are as follows:

- [C and C++](../LangageExt/7513005.md)

- [Visual Basic](../LangageExt/7517001.md)

- [Pascal and Delphi](../LangageExt/7516001.md)

- [Cobol](../LangageExt/7511001.md)

- [Java](../LangageExt/7515001.md)

- [Fortran](../LangageExt/7514001.md)

- [C#](../LangageExt/7512001.md)




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Implementation required to use an interface with an external language
<a name="implementation_required_use_interface_with_external_language_ELTTEXTE000179"></a>
To use the elements developed in WINDEV with an external language, select "External languages" when installing WINDEV.

**Remark**: The files required by the "External languages" are automatically installed during a full setup of WINDEV.

**Caution**: Your compiler of the external language used must necessarily be installed on the development computer.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Files required to run the program written in external language
<a name="files_required_run_the_program_written_external_language_ELTTEXTE000203"></a>
To run the program written in external language, you must have:

- The WINDEV libraries (".DLL" files).

- The libraries specific to the external language used.

- The executable programs written in external language.

- The libraries of the WINDEV application.

- The analysis associated with the WINDEV application. This analysis can be included in the library.



<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### WINDEV libraries (".DLL" files)
<a name="windev_libraries_dll_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000080"></a>

The program written in external language requires the WINDEV libraries in order to operate (call to the WLanguage functions, use of graphic objects, ...). These libraries are listed when the executable is created in WINDEV. Refer to this list to find out the different libraries used by the WINDEV application ("wdxxx\*.DLL") files.

The listed libraries as well as the wdxxxle.dll and wdxxxcpl.dll libraries must be copied into the runtime directory of the program written in external language.

**Remarks**:

- In Java, you also need to copy the wdXXXIJV.DLL library.

- In C#, you also need to copy the wdXXXICS.DLL library.

- In Fortran and Cobol, you also need to copy the wdXXXFL.DLL library.



<a name="NOTE3_3"></a>


### Libraries of the WINDEV application
<a name="libraries_the_windev_application_ELTPARAGRAPHE000095"></a>

The libraries of the WINDEV application contain all the windows, reports, images (and other files) of the WINDEV application.

**Remark**: If the libraries (".WDL" file) are not found when running the execution test of the program in the editor of the external language, the path of the libraries must be specified when they are opened.

**Special case**: In Visual Basic, you must use the following Visual Basic functions: chDir and chDisk to specify the path of the libraries.

<a name="NOTE4"></a>
<a name="NOTE4_1"></a>


## Examples supplied with WINDEV
<a name="examples_supplied_with_windev_ELTTEXTE000239"></a>
A full example is proposed by WINDEV for each available language. These examples are found in the "ExternalLanguages\\&lt;LanguageName&gt;" subdirectory of the setup directory of WINDEV.


