
## Programming overview in C and C++
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## The different types of programming
<a name="the_different_types_programming_ELTTEXTE000102"></a>
WINDEV proposes 3 types of programming to call WINDEV element from an external language. To illustrate these methods, we will be using the C/C++ language+.




### 1st method: Programming in WinDev 5.5 mode
<a name="1st_method_programming_windev_55_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000016"></a>

This method must not be used for the new developments. It is available for backward compatibility with the version 5.5. If you did not develop any project with the external interface of WINDEV, go to mode #2 directly.

In this mode, we are going to retrieve an application developed with WINDEV 5.5 and C/C++. The existing code (C and WLanguage) can be kept entirely, except for management of menus and initialization of controls at window opening...

This mode remains available with minor modifications for backward compatibility only. For more details, see [I was using the external languages in WINDEV 5.5. How to proceed with WINDEV 28?](../LangageExt/7513006.md)


### 2nd mode: Programming in C
<a name="2nd_mode_programming_ELTPARAGRAPHE000029"></a>

We are going to call the elements developed in WINDEV (project, windows, analysis, etc.) from the C language. This system is based on the use of the functions declared in the .h, .c and .cpp files of WINDEV. The WLanguage code used from the external language will be dynamically compiled and run during its call.

This mode is illustrated in the VC60.dsp project (in Visual C++ 6 format) supplied in the "ExternalLanguages\\C" subdirectory of WINDEV's setup directory.

For more details on this method, see [Use the external languages in C](../LangageExt/7513001.md). 




### 3rd method: C++ programming (using the WDWDial interface)
<a name="3rd_method_programming_using_the_wdwdial_interface_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

This third method uses class inheritance to easily interface a C++ application and WINDEV. This programming mode is recommended if you already a class-based architecture (MFC for example) for your development projects.

The base classes provided with this interface use the functions described in the 2nd method in the background. See the chapter regarding the 2nd method for more details.

This mode is illustrated in the VC60API.dsp project (in Visual C++ 6 format) supplied in the "ExternalLanguages\\C" subdirectory of WINDEV's setup directory.

For more details on this method, see [Use the external language in C++](../LangageExt/7513010.md).




