
## Open (External language)

***In french: Ouvre***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Opens a window.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```txt
// In C
CALLWD("Open,WIN_Window1.WDW");
```


<a name="Example2"></a>



```txt
// In Pascal
CALLWD('Open,WIN_Window1.WDW');
```


<a name="Example3"></a>



```txt
// In VB
call CALLWD("Open,WIN_Window1.WDW")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`Open(<Window name> [, <"/CR"> [, <Y> [, <X> [, <"+TAB+"Parameter 1"+TAB+"Parameter 2"+...>]]]])`
---

**`<Window name>: (Character string)`**

 Name of the window to be opened. This parameter includes the path, the name and the extension of the window (the extension of  WINDEV windows is ".WDW" by default).

**`<"/CR">: (Optional parameter)`**

Enables you to detect an error.

**`<Y>: (Integer (optional))`**

 Y-coordinate (in pixels) of window (in relation to the upper-left corner of the screen or parent window).

**`<X>: (Integer (optional))`**

 X-coordinate (in pixels) of the window (in relation to the top corner of the screen).

**`<"+TAB+"Parameter 1"+TAB+"Parameter 2"+...>: (Optional parameters)`**

 Parameters to pass to the window when it is opened.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If the /CR parameter is specified, the "E\*" status code is returned in WdKey in case of an error.

- We recommend that you use **Open** rather than Use when the context before the window opening must be restored.

- The opened window is stacked over the previous window (if it exists).

- The controls found in the opened window are active. The controls found in the previous window (if it exists) are inactive.

- To modify the window title, you must use Screen,Next or Screen,Current.

- WdKey contains "\*E\*" if an error occurred during the opening.

- If a window calls global procedures, the project must be run by Project before opening the window, otherwise the global procedures and the style sheet will not be recognized.

- A window can be opened even if there is no current project. In this case, the window must be attached to no project.





