


## GglGetCalendar (Function)

***In french: GglRécupèreAgenda***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Retrieves a Google calendar and its events according to its title or identifier. This function is using the Google Calendar service.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1001000017410&name=gglgetcalendar_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
// Connection
Cnt is gglConnection
...
IF GglConnect(Cnt) = False THEN
	Error(ErrorInfo())
END

// Retrieve the calendar named "Work"
Calendar is gglCalendar = GglGetCalendar(Cnt, "Work")
// Browse the events of the calendar
IF ErrorOccurred = False THEN
	 Evt is gglEvent
	 FOR EACH Evt OF Calendar
		Trace(Evt.Title)
	 END
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = GglGetCalendar(<Google connection> [, <Title or identifier> [, <Beginning of events> [, <End of events> [, <String to find>]]]])`
---

**`<Result>: (gglCalendar variable)`**

[gglCalendar](../WDLang5/1000017418.md) variable with the characteristics of the retrieved calendar.

**`<Google connection>: (gglConnection variable)`**

Name of the [gglConnection](../WDLang5/1000018009.md) variable to be used. This connection was validated by [GglConnect](../WDLang5/1000017332.md).

**`<Title or identifier>: (Optional Unicode character string)`**

Title or identifier of sought calendar. If this parameter corresponds to an empty string (""), the first available calendar is retrieved (by default).

**`<Beginning of events>: (Optional DateTime)`**

Start date and time of events to retrieve. 
If &lt;Beginning of events&gt; and &lt;End of events&gt; are not specified, only the future events are retrieved (events from today's date). 
If only &lt;Beginning of events&gt; is specified, all the events found after this date will be retrieved (the limit date defined by Google is 01/01/2031).

**`<End of events>: (Optional DateTime)`**

End date and time of events to retrieve. 
If &lt;Beginning of events&gt; and &lt;End of events&gt; are not specified, only the future events are retrieved (events from today's date). 
If only &lt;End of events&gt; is specified, all the events found before this date will be retrieved (the limit date defined by Google is 01/01/1970).

**`<String to find>: (Optional character string)`**

Text to find in the calendar events. If this parameter is specified, only the events containing the specified text will be listed. The search is performed on the name and description of the calendar. This search is not case sensitive. This parameter corresponds to an empty string by default.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Possible error cases: 
<a name="possible_error_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000079"></a>

- The Internet connection is not valid.

- The authentication was not performed properly.

- The XML response of the server cannot be read.

- The calendar was not found.




To find out whether an error occurred, use the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280ggl.dll
