


## &lt;sfConnection variable&gt;.SeekDeleted (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable sfConnexion&gt;.RechercheSupprimé***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Seeks and retrieves the records (Salesforce objects) deleted during the specified period.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Connect to Salesforce
Cnt is sfConnection
Cnt.Login = "balthazar@gmail.com"
Cnt.Password = "qwerty" + "XXB12VCZ54"
IF SFConnect(Cnt) = False THEN
	Error("The connection failed")
	RETURN
END

ResGetDel is sfSeekDeletedResult
ResGetDel = SFSeekDeleted(Cnt, "Mileage__c", "20090101", "20090131")

MyRecord is sfDeletedRecord
FOR EACH MyRecord OF ResGetDel.DeletedRecord
	Trace("--- ID: " + MyRecord.ID)
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = <Salesforce connection>.SeekDeleted(<Salesforce file> , <Start date> , <End date>)`
---

**`<Result>: (sfSeekDeletedResult variable)`**

[sfSeekDeletedResult](../WDLang5/1000018562.md) variable that contains the result data.

**`<Salesforce connection>: (sfConnection variable)`**

Name of the variable of type [sfConnection](../WDLang5/1000017579.md) to be used

**`<Salesforce file>: (Character string)`**

Name of Salesforce file to process. This name must correspond to the name defined in the Salesforce interface as the "API name". For a custom file, this name corresponds to the file name followed by 2 underscore characters then by the letter "C". For example: "MyAccount__C".

**`<Start date>: (DateTime)`**

Start date of period for which the number of deleted objects is requested. This date cannot be more than 30 days before the current date. Indeed, the deleted elements are only kept for 30 days in the recycle bin. Then, they are permanently deleted by Salesforce. 
This parameter must be in UTC format (use [DateTimeLocalToUTC](../WDLang1/3027036.md) if necessary to perform the conversion).

**`<End date>: (DateTime)`**

End date of period for which the number of deleted objects is requested. This parameter must be in UTC format (use [DateTimeLocalToUTC](../WDLang1/3027036.md) if necessary to perform the conversion).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Possible error cases: 
<a name="possible_error_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000205"></a>

- The Internet connection is not valid.

- The authentication was not performed properly.

- The XML response of the server cannot be read.




To find out whether an error occurred, use the [ErrorOccurred](../WDLang1/3087001.md) variable.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280ggl.dll
