
## iMargin (Function)

***In french: iMarge***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Defines the "logical" print margins. These margins are added to the physical margins in which nothing can be printed. Therefore, you cannot print inside the physical and logical margins.

**Caution**: This function cannot be used in the report editor.




<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
iMargin(20, 11, 20, 11)
// Find out the physical margins of a printer
iMargin(0, 0, 0, 0)
MarginH = (PaperHeight - iPageHeight())/2
MarginW = (PaperWidth - iPageWidth())/2
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`iMargin(<Top margin> , <Bottom margin> , <Left margin> , <Right margin>)`
---

**`<Top margin>: (Real)`**

Margin of the top section of page, expressed in millimeters. This margin applies from the top side of the page. If this margin is smaller than the physical top margin, the physical top margin will apply.

**`<Bottom margin>: (Real)`**

Margin of the bottom section of page, expressed in millimeters. This margin will be applied from the bottom side of the page. If this margin is smaller than the physical bottom margin, the physical bottom margin will apply.

**`<Left margin>: (Real)`**

Margin of the left section of page, expressed in millimeters. This margin will be applied from the left side of the page. If this margin is smaller than the physical left margin, the physical left margin will apply.

**`<Right margin>: (Real)`**

Margin of the right section of page, expressed in millimeters. This margin applies from the right side of the page. If this margin is smaller than the physical right margin, the physical right margin will apply.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### When should I use iMargin? 
<a name="when_should_use_imargin_ELTPARAGRAPHE000065"></a>

- **iMargin** must be called:

	- before the positioning and printing functions ([iPrint](../WDLang5/3046031.md), [iPrintImage](../WDLang5/3046017.md), etc.), 

	- after [iConfigure](../WDLang5/3046072.md) (or [iParameter](../WDLang5/3046008.md)).




- [iEndPrinting](../WDLang5/3046053.md) cancels the margins.

- In the same document, you can define margins multiple times with **iMargin**. For each print, the origin of the print will use the last defined margins.

- **iMargin** must not be called in the processes of a report created with the report editor.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Logical margins and physical margins
<a name="logical_margins_and_physical_margins_ELTPARAGRAPHE000099"></a>

- By default, the logical margins are set to 0. The origin (0, 0) is located in the top left corner of the sheet, taking into account the physical margin (top and left).

- The physical print area is set to the maximum when the parameters of **iMargin** are all equal to 0 (default value).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280prn.dll
