


## &lt;Chart&gt;.SunburstAddData (Function)

***In french: &lt;Graphe&gt;.SMNAjouteDonnée***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Adds a data to a Sunburst chart.


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
CHART_Chart.SunburstAddData("Europe" + TAB + "France" + TAB + "Montpellier", 320000)
CHART_Chart.SunburstAddData("Europe" + TAB + "France" + TAB + "Paris", 789000)
CHART_Chart.SunburstAddData("Europe" + TAB + "France", 1109000) 
CHART_Chart.SunburstAddData("Europe" + TAB + "Belgium", 900000)
CHART_Chart.SunburstAddData("Asia", 250000)
CHART_Chart.Draw()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Chart control>.SunburstAddData(<Section path> , <Value>)`
---

**`<Chart control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Chart control to use (in the window, page or report editor).



**`<Section path>: (Character string)`**

Full path of the section that will be added into the chart. This parameter has the following format:
This path defines the position of the data by specifying the its different hierarchical levels. 
For example, if the path contains "Europe + TAB + France + TAB + Montpellier", the data will be added on the third level of the chart below the "Europe\\France\\Montpellier" categories.

**`<Value>: (Real)`**

Value of the added part. This value must not be negative.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Sunburst chart
<a name="sunburst_chart_ELTPARAGRAPHE000225"></a>

- If a level does not contain its own value, its value will be calculated by adding the values of sub-levels.

- If the sum of data for the sub-levels of a specific level exceeds the value of this level, an error will be returned when drawing the chart.

- The color of the sub-levels is calculated automatically: this color has the same shade as the color of the main level but paler.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Adding data into a chart
<a name="adding_data_into_chart_ELTPARAGRAPHE000237"></a>

[&lt;Chart&gt;.AddData](../WDLang3/1000023533.md) is used to add data into a chart (pie, column, ...)

Depending on the type of chart, specific functions can also be used to add data: 

- For stock charts, it is recommended to use [&lt;Chart&gt;.StockAddData](../WDLang3/1000023565.md).

- For Heatmap charts, it is recommended to use [&lt;Chart&gt;.HMAddData](../WDLang3/1000024079.md).

- For Scatter charts, it is recommended to use [&lt;Chart&gt;.ScatterAddDataXY](../WDLang3/1000024105.md).

- For Surface charts, it is recommended to use [&lt;Chart&gt;.SurfaceAddData](../WDLang3/1000024143.md).




Reminder: To add a value to the data in a chart, use [&lt;Chart&gt;.IncreaseData](../WDLang3/1000024086.md).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
## Component:
wd280grf.dll
