


## BTLECharacteristicChangeOfValue (Function)

***In french: BTLECaractéristiqueChangementValeur***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Enables or disables the detection regarding the change of value for a Bluetooth Low Energy characteristic.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
crtc is btleCharacteristic
BTLECharacteristicChangeOfValue(crtc, ProcDetectChange)
```

```wl
crtc is btleCharacteristic
BTLECharacteristicChangeOfValue(crtc)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Asking to be notified whenever the value of a characteristic changes

`BTLECharacteristicChangeOfValue(<Characteristic> [, <WLanguage procedure>])`
---

**`<Characteristic>: (btleCharacteristic variable)`**

Name of the [btleCharacteristic](../WDLang3/1000022060.md) variable corresponding to the characteristic to use.

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Procedure name)`**

Name of WLangage procedure ("callback" procedure) that will be called when a characteristic changes on the device. This procedure has the following format : 


```txt
PROCEDURE <Procedure name>(<Characteristic>, <Value>)
```
where: 

- &lt;Characteristic&gt; is a [btleCharacteristic](../WDLang3/1000022060.md) variable corresponding to the characteristic whose value changed on the Bluetooth device. 

- &lt;Value&gt; is a buffer containing the new value of characteristic.


The parameters of this procedure are optional.
There is no need to pass parameters to this procedure. Indeed, these parameters are automatically filled during each call.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Stopping the detection regarding the change of characteristic value

`BTLECharacteristicChangeOfValue(<Characteristic>)`
---

**`<Characteristic>: (btleCharacteristic variable)`**

Name of the [btleCharacteristic](../WDLang3/1000022060.md) variable corresponding to the characteristic to use.



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280android.aar
