
## KioskEnable (Function)

***In french: KiosqueActive***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Switches the current Android application to kiosk mode. In this mode, users' actions are limited: 

- users are prevented from leaving the application,

- users cannot run other applications,

- users cannot access the device settings,

- users do not see or receive notifications or calls.




Reminder: A kiosk application is an application from which the user cannot exit. When an application is in kiosk mode, user actions are limited. For more details, see [Application in kiosk mode](../WDLang3/1000024431.md). 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Switch the current application to kiosk mode
KioskEnable()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`KioskEnable()`
---



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Kiosk mode
<a name="kiosk_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000040"></a>

- The application must be in the foreground to be able to switch to kiosk mode.

- If the application uses simple kiosk mode (without Device owner), a confirmation message is displayed when the kiosk mode is enabled. The user can exit this mode by simultaneously pressing the "Back" and "Recent" buttons.

- If the application uses full kiosk mode (Device owner), the confirmation message is not displayed and the user cannot exit kiosk mode. To learn more about device owner applications, see [Application in kiosk mode](../WDLang3/1000024431.md).

- [InKioskMode](../WDLang1/1000024427.md) allows you to find out whether the application is currently in kiosk mode.

- When kiosk mode is enabled: 

	- The "Home" and "Recent" buttons are disabled. 

	- Notifications are not displayed (even those sent by the application). 

	- It is not possible to launch another application ([ShellExecute](../WDLang1/3035007.md), [AlbumPicker](../WDLang3/1000020186.md), [StartShare](../WDLang1/1000020620.md), ... will fail). 

	- The system bar is empty. Time, battery information and other system details are not displayed.

	- You can still change the volume or turn off the device.




- To exit kiosk mode, the application must call [KioskDisable](../WDLang3/1000024426.md).



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Specific features
<a name="specific_features_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

- **KioskEnable** has no effect in the simulator.

- If the device restarts, the kiosk mode will not be kept the next time the application is launched. You can: 

	- call  **KioskEnable** in the "Initializing" event of the project. 

	- set the application to be launched at startup (in the Android application creation wizard) so that the application automatically returns to kiosk mode in case of restart. 




- **KioskEnable** is only available on devices running Android 5.0 or later (API level 21). 
	A fatal error occurs if the function is used with an earlier system version. 
	To determine the version of Android the application is running on, use [SysAndroidVersion](../WDLang1/1000019785.md).



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>

<a name="XComponent"></a>

