


## &lt;Chart&gt;.TimeLevelMask (Function)

***In french: &lt;Graphe&gt;.NiveauTemporelMasque***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Defines the display mask for a level of the time scale in a chart. 

Remark: This function can be used with [&lt;Chart&gt;.TimeLevelMax](../WDLang3/1000024096.md), which defines the number of levels to be displayed in the time scale of a chart.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Displays the hours in 10h format
CHART_MyChart.TimeLevelMask(grtlHour, "HHh")
```



```wl
// Set the time scale to display several values per month
// but displaying only the months in the scale 
// (days are not displayed)
CHART_MyChart.TimeLevelMask(grtlMonth, "Mmm")
CHART_MyChart.TimeLevelMax(1, grtlMonth)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Chart control>.TimeLevelMask(<Time level> , <Mask>)`
---

**`<Chart control>: (Control name)`**

Name of the Chart control to use (found in the window editor or the page editor).

**`<Time level>: (Integer constant)`**

Time level onto which the mask will be fixed: 



|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *grtlDay* | The mask will be used on the days. |
| *grtlHour* | The mask will be used on the hours. |
| *grtlMillisecond* | The mask will be used on the milliseconds. |
| *grtlMinute* | The mask will be used on the minutes. |
| *grtlMonth* | The mask will be used on the months. |
| *grtlSecond* | The mask will be used on the seconds. |
| *grtlYear* | The mask will be used on the years. |



**`<Mask>: (Character string)`**

Mask to use. 

Caution:  The mask is applied to a single time level. Therefore, we advise you to specify it by using the data of this level only (for example, "HH" for the hour level or "YYYY" for the year level).



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Combination of masks
<a name="combination_masks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000239"></a>The masks can be combined in order to use a specific format. For example: 

```wl
// Displays the months in month + year format
CHART_MyChart.TimeLevelMask(grtlMonth, "Mmm YYYY")
```

<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Available masks
<a name="available_masks_ELTPARAGRAPHE000255"></a>

The available masks are as follows: 

- YYYY represents a 4-digit year.

- YY represents a 2-digit date.

- M represents the month without a leading zero.

- MM represents a 2-digit month.

- MMM represents a 3-letter month (e.g., Jan). The case used depends on the language options of the project. 

- Mmm represents a 3-letter month with the first letter in uppercase (e.g., Jan).

- mmm represents a 3-letter month with the first letter in lowercase (e.g., jan).

- MMMM represents the month as a full name (e.g., January). The case used depends on the language options of the project.

- Mmmm represents the month as a full name with the first letter in uppercase (e.g., January).

- mmmm represents the month as a full name with the first letter in lowercase (e.g., january).

- D represents the day without a leading zero.

- DD represents a 2-digit day.

- DDD represents a 3-letter day (e.g., Mon). The case used depends on the language options of the project.

- Ddd represents a 3-letter day with the first letter in uppercase (e.g., Mon).

- ddd represents a 3-letter day with the first letter in lowercase (e.g., mon).

- DDDD represents the day as a full name (e.g., Monday). The case used depends on the language options of the project.

- Dddd represents the day as a full name with the first letter in uppercase (e.g., Monday).

- dddd represents the day as a full name with the first letter in lowercase (e.g., monday).

- M represents the first letter of the day (e.g., M, T, W, T, F, SS).

- HH represents the number of hours.

- mm represents the number of minutes.

- SS represents the number of seconds.

- CC represents the number of hundredths of a second.

- AP represents "AM" or "PM" (if "AP" is used, the time is displayed in 12-hour format).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280grf.dll
