
## SaaSAdminListSubscription (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminListeAbonnement***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Lists the SaaS subscriptions associated with a site or pricing.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The SaaS Administrator will have access to all subscriptions. A manager of client accounts will have access to his own subscriptions. 



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Count the global number of subscriptions
arrSub is array of saasSubscription 
arrClient is array of saasClient 

arrSub = SaaSAdminListSubscription("CRM")
arrClient = SaaSAdminListClient()
Info("The CRM site contains " + arrSub.Count + " subscribers (for all client accounts)")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Listing the subscriptions to a SaaS site

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListSubscription(<SaaS site>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasSubscription variables)`**

[saasSubscription](../WDLang3/1000019088.md) type containing the list of subscriptions to the desired site.

**`<SaaS site>: (saasSite variable or character string)`**

Name of the [saasSite](../WDLang3/1000019068.md) variable (or site name) that corresponds to the SaaS site for which subscriptions are to be found.

If this parameter is a character string, it must correspond to the site name.


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Listing the subscriptions to a pricing (via saasxxx variables)

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListSubscription(<Pricing>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasSubscription variables)`**

[saasSubscription](../WDLang3/1000019088.md) variable containing the list of subscriptions at the specified pricing.

**`<Pricing>: (saasPricing variable)`**

[saasPricing](../WDLang3/1000019091.md) variable corresponding to the pricing for which the subscriptions will be listed.


<a name="SYNTAX3"></a>

### Listing the subscriptions to a pricing (identified by its name)

`<Result> = SaaSAdminListSubscription(<Pricing> , <SaaS site>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Array of saasSubscription variables)`**

[saasSubscription](../WDLang3/1000019088.md) variable that corresponds to the list of subscriptions at the specified pricing.

**`<Pricing>: (Character string)`**

Name of the pricing for which the subscriptions will be listed.

**`<SaaS site>: (Character string)`**

Name of the SaaS site associated with the pricing.



<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
