
## WebserviceClientIPAddress (Function)

***In french: WebserviceAdresseIPClient***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the IP address of the computer using and calling the Webservice.

Caution: The Webservice must be hosted by the WEBDEV application server. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Returns the IP address of the client
ClientAddress is string
ClientAddress = WebserviceClientIPAddress()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = WebserviceClientIPAddress([<Type of address>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string)`**

IP address of the computer of the Web user: 

- If the connection is in IPv4, the response is in "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx" format (for example: 195.196.100.1). 

- If the connection is in IPv6, the response is in IPv6 format.




**`<Type of address>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> to retrieve the initial address specified in the HTTP header, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (default value) to retrieve the IP address in the environment variable "REMOTE_ADDR" defined by the Web server.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Managing the type of address
<a name="managing_the_type_address_ELTPARAGRAPHE000046"></a>

The address returned by **WebserviceClientIPAddress** may not correspond to the user's address (if a non-transparent proxy or a load balancer is used, for example). In this case, **WebserviceClientIPAddress** returns the IP address of the proxy or load balancer.

If the initial address is requested, **WebserviceClientIPAddress** tries to read the address specified in the HTTP headers. Indeed, most of the proxies provide the initial address in the HTTP headers. However, this address must be used with caution because it is not reliable and can be completely wrong.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Special cases
<a name="special_cases_ELTPARAGRAPHE000061"></a>

- If the original address is not found or is invalid (too long for example), the "standard" address is sent.

- The server IP address is returned by [NetIPAddress](../WDLang3/3056023.md).




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280awws.dll
