
## StreamChangeDriver (Function)

***In french: FluxChangeDriver***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Specifies the camera that will be used as source for a stream and/or a Conference control. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Click on back Camera:
StreamChangeDriver(CONF_Stream1, 2)

// Moves the camera onto another Conference control
StreamChangeDriver(CONF_Stream2, 0) // Frees the camera otherwise the next call fails

StreamChangeDriver(CONF_Stream1, 1)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Defining the source camera from the camera number

`StreamChangeDriver(<Conference control> , <Camera number>)`
---

**`<Conference control>: (Control name or character string)`**

Name of the Conference control or name of the stream to be used. 

**`<Camera number>: (Integer)`**

Number of the camera to use. 

- If this parameter is set to 0, the stream is disconnected from the associated camera. 

- If this parameter is invalid, the function fails and a non-fatal error is returned. 

- If the camera number does not exist, the steam will no longer send images. 





<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Defining the source camera from the camera driver

`StreamChangeDriver(<Conference control> , <Driver name>)`
---

**`<Conference control>: (Control name or character string)`**

Name of the Conference control or name of the stream to be used. 

**`<Driver name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the camera to use. This name corresponds to one of the names returned by [VideoListDriver](../WDLang1/3079008.md) (used with the *viDirectShow* constant). 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


- If a communication is in progress, the video source is modified.

- To find out the name of the streams found in a window, display the description window of the streams: 

	- From the description window of the Conference control: In the "General" tab, click "Edit window streams". 

	- From the context menu of the Conference control: Select "Edit window streams". 







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
