
## SaaSAdminConfigureSMTP (Function)

***In french: SaaSAdminConfigureSMTP***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Configures the SMTP session associated with the administrator account of a SaaS session.

**Remarks**: 

- To use this function, a SaaS management session must have been started previously with [SaaSAdminConnect](../WDLang3/1000019098.md).

- The use of this function is reserved to the SaaS administrator. A manager of client accounts cannot use this function.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
e is emailSMTPSession
e..ServerAddress = "smtp.myserver.fr"
// ...
SaaSAdminConfigureSMTP(e)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = SaaSAdminConfigureSMTP(<SMTP session> [, <Recipient> [, <Sender>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the configuration of SMTP session was successful,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<SMTP session>: (emailSMTPSession variable)`**

Name of the [emailSMTPSession](../WDLang3/1000018765.md) variable that contains the details about the SMTP session configuration (server, username, password, etc.).

**`<Recipient>: (Optional character string)`**

Email address of the recipient in blind carbon copy. This parameter is ignored if it is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""). 

**`<Sender>: (Optional character string)`**

Sender email address. This parameter is ignored if it is not specified or if it corresponds to an empty string (""). 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Need for SMTP settings
<a name="need_for_smtp_settings_ELTPARAGRAPHE000059"></a>

To manage forgotten passwords (send an email containing the security code, [SaaSSendSecurityCode](../WDLang3/1000022528.md)) you need the configuration of the SMTP session used: 

- via **SaaSAdminConfigureSMTP**. 

- via the interface of SaaS administrator. 




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
