


## FTPDateTime (Function)

***In french: FTPDateHeure***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the different dates and times (creation, modification or access) associated with a file found on an FTP server (File Transfer Protocol).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
ResDate = FTPDateTime(ConnectionNum, "/Documents/File.txt")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

### Finding out the different dates and times associated with the last file viewed

`<Result> = FTPDateTime([<Type of date>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string or DateTime variable)`**



- Date and time (YYYYMMDDHHmmSSCC format) associated with the last file viewed via one of the following FTP functions: [FTPAttribute](../WDLang3/3040006.md), [FTPTime](../WDLang3/3040013.md), [FTPSize](../WDLang3/3040007.md), [FTPListFile](../WDLang3/3040018.md).

- Empty string ("") if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**Unlike syntax 2, no request is sent to the server. This syntax is recommended whenever possible**. 

**`<Type of date>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Date and time to use: 


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *ftpAccess* | Date and time of last access to the file. |
| *ftpCreation* | Date and time of file creation. |
| *ftpModification*<br>(Default value) | Date and time of last file modification. |




<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out the different dates and times associated with the specified file

`<Result> = FTPDateTime(<Connection identifier> , <File name> [, <Type of date>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Character string or DateTime variable)`**



- Date and time of the specified file (in YYYYMMDDHHmmSS format),

- Empty string ("") if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Connection identifier>: (Integer)`**

Connection identifier, returned by [FTPConnect](../WDLang3/3040016.md).

**`<File name>: (Character string)`**

Name and full (or relative) path of the file be accessed. The different path sections are separated by "slashes" ("/").

**`<Type of date>: (Optional Integer constant)`**

Date and time to use: 


|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| *ftpAccess* | Date and time of last access to the file. |
| *ftpCreation* | Date and time of file creation. |
| *ftpModification*<br>(Default value) | Date and time of last file modification. |





<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### File date
<a name="file_date_ELTPARAGRAPHE000117"></a>

Due to a bug in a Microsoft component, the year returned by **FTPDateTime** may be invalid for some versions of Internet Explorer 5.0. If the file was created or modified on the same day, the date may be one year earlier than the actual date.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Timeout
<a name="timeout_ELTPARAGRAPHE000126"></a>

By default, all the FTP functions fail if the FTP server does not respond within 20 seconds. This timeout can be modified with [FTPConnect](../WDLang3/3040016.md) when connecting to the FTP server.
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>


### Rights of users
<a name="rights_users_ELTPARAGRAPHE000152"></a>

Only a user who has read rights on the FTP server can get information about the files or the directories found on an FTP server. In most cases, the read rights are granted to the "anonymous" users.
<a name="NOTE0_5"></a>


### Relative and absolute path
<a name="relative_and_absolute_path_ELTPARAGRAPHE000159"></a>

The notions of relative path and absolute path are very important in an FTP application.

- A path starting with a slash is considered as being an **absolute path**: it is the path in relation to the root of the FTP server (parameter specific to the server).
	Example: /ad/user/JULIA

- A path not starting with a slash is considered as being a **relative path**, which means a path given in relation to the current directory. This current directory can be returned or modified by [FTPCurrentDir](../WDLang3/3040003.md).




When connecting to an FTP site, the initial directory (the "home directory" of the user) is not necessarily found at the root of the FTP server. Therefore, we recommend that you use relative paths.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
