
## LEDSwitchOn (Function)

***In french: LEDAllume***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Switches the LED (Light-Emitting Diode) of the device on. This LED can be switched off by [LEDSwitchOff](../WDLang3/1000019447.md). 

Caution: 

- The device must be equipped with a LED.

- This function has no effect in the simulator or in the emulator.





<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Switch on the diode in red for 1 second
LEDSwitchOn(LightRed, 1000)

// Turn off LED
LEDSwitchOff()
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`LEDSwitchOn(<Color> [, <Duration> [, <Blinking>]])`
---

**`<Color>: (Integer)`**

Color of the LED. This color can correspond to: 

- an RGB color (returned by [RGB](../WDLang1/3029012.md)),

- an HSL color (returned by [HSL](../WDLang1/3029057.md)),

- [a WLanguage preset color](../WDLang5/3010002.md).


**Caution**: Some devices do not allow you to modify the LED color or they do not propose all the colors. A default color (or a similar color) will be used if the specified color is not supported by the device.

**`<Duration>: (Optional integer or optional Duration)`**

Duration (in milliseconds) during which the diode must be switched on. 

- If this parameter is set to 0, the diode will be switched on until the call to [LEDSwitchOff](../WDLang3/1000019447.md) or until the application is closed. 

- If this parameter is not specified, the diode will be switched on during 3 seconds.


This parameter can correspond to: 

- an integer corresponding to the number of milliseconds,

- a Duration variable,

- the duration in a readable format (e.g., 1 s or 10 ms). 




**`<Blinking>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the LED must blink, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> (default value) if the LED must be fixed. The blinking frequency can change from a device to another one.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode of the LEDs
<a name="operating_mode_the_leds_ELTPARAGRAPHE000087"></a>

The operating mode of the LEDs differs according to the type of device used: 

- Some devices do not allow you to modify the LED color or they do not propose all the colors. A default color (or a similar color) will be used if the specified color is not supported by the device.

- On some devices, the LED is switched on only when the screen is switched off.

- On some devices, when they are linked to the PC by USB or plugged in, the LED is used as charge warning light. In this case, **LEDSwitchOn** has no effect.

- The lighting of the LED will be interrupted if the user expands the window of notifications on the device.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280android.jar
