


## WebSocketExecute (Function)

***In french: WebSocketExecute***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Executes a global procedure in the context of a client connected to the WebSocket server.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Retrieve list of clients
arrClients is array of websocketClient = WebSocketListConnectedClient()
// Force the call to the SetInformation procedure in each client
sInformation is string = GetInformation()
FOR EACH Client OF arrClients
	WebSocketExecute(Client, SetInformation)
	// SetInformation is a global procedure that uses the sInformation variable
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`WebSocketExecute(<Client> , <WLanguage procedure> [, <Parameters>])`
---

**`<Client>: (websocketClient variable)`**

Name of the [websocketClient](../WDLang3/1000025952.md) variable corresponding to the client in which the procedure will be executed. 

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Procedure name)`**

Name of the global WLanguage procedure to be executed in the context of the client.

**`<Parameters>: (List of values enclosed in brackets and separated by commas)`**

Parameters of the procedure. This list of parameters has the following format: 


```txt
(<Parameter 1>, ..., <Parameter N>)
```
where: 

- &lt;Parameter 1&gt;: First procedure parameter.

- ...

- &lt;Parameter N&gt;: Nth procedure parameter.




**Caution**: 

- Parameters are passed by value. 

- Only simple types are allowed: Boolean, integer, ... For example, it is not possible to have a parameter corresponding to a class instance. 






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Execution contexts
<a name="execution_contexts_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

The global service of the WebSocket server and the connected clients are executed independently. Each is executed in its own context with:

- its own copy of global variables.

- its own database context. 

- etc.


Therefore, it is not possible to handle the global context or the context of another client.

**WebSocketExecute** is used to execute the WLanguage procedure passed as parameter in the context of another client. During the execution of the procedure, the global variables will be those of the target client.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Asynchronous operating mode
<a name="asynchronous_operating_mode_ELTPARAGRAPHE000090"></a>

The operating mode is asynchronous: the function simply requests the execution of the procedure. The procedure can actually be executed later (after **WebSocketExecute** has been executed). **WebSocketExecute** never returns an error (for example, if the client has been disconnected in the meantime).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Business Logic
## Component:
wd280awws.dll
