


## &lt;emailAttach variable&gt;.SaveAttachment (Function)

***In french: &lt;Variable emailAttache&gt;.SauveFichierAttaché***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Copies the attachment of current email onto the user computer (locally).


<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = EmailSaveAttachment(<Attached file> , <Name of copied file>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the attached file was copied onto the local computer.

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Attached file>: (emailAttach variable)`**

Name of [emailAttach](../WDLang3/1000018752.md) variable containing the description of attached file.

**`<Name of copied file>: (Character string)`**

Name and full or relative path of file copied onto the local computer.



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Handling the messages and their attached files
<a name="handling_the_messages_and_their_attached_files_ELTPARAGRAPHE000184"></a>

We recommend that you save the messages and their attached files on the local drive (or on a server drive), then delete them from the server. This operation is used to:

- reduce the size of the mailbox on the server, 

- improve and speed up the communications: only the new messages will be read on the server.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Reminder
<a name="reminder_ELTPARAGRAPHE000197"></a>

**Email structure**: The following variables contain information about the files attached to the current message:

- Email.NbAttach: number of attachments.

- Email.Attach: array containing the name of the files attached to the current message.




**Email variable**: The files attached to the current message are returned by **Email..Attach** (array containing the name of the files attached to the current message).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
