
## AppleAdvertisingIdentifier (Function)

***In french: AppleIdentifiantPublicitaire***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the device's advertising identifier (iOS only). 

The advertising identifier is a device-specific UUID. This identifier is only used for advertising. This string is used by advertisers, mainly for the following purposes:

- limiting the number of exposures to an ad,

- assigning ads according to profiles, 

- conversion (ads that lead to a visit to the site),

- estimating the number of unique users,

- detecting advertising fraud,

- debugging.



<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
SWITCH AppleTrackingAuthorizationStatus()
     CASE atasNotDetermined
             AppleRequestTrackingAuthorizationAsynchronous(OnTracking)
     CASE atasAuthorized
             TrackUser(AppleAdvertisingIdentifier())
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>

## Syntax
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

`<Result> = AppleAdvertisingIdentifier()`
---

**`<Result>: (UUID)`**

Device's advertising identifier. 



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Authorization required
<a name="authorization_required_ELTPARAGRAPHE000043"></a>

- A specific authorization is required to get the device's advertising identifier. You can check if this authorization has been granted, using [AppleTrackingAuthorizationStatus](../WDLang3/1410087934.md). If the authorization has not been granted, you can request it using [AppleRequestTrackingAuthorizationAsynchronous](../WDLang3/1410087935.md).

- If the authorization has not been granted, the value of the identifier will be all zeros. 

- This identifier is not available in the Xcode simulator.





### Resetting the advertising identifier
<a name="resetting_the_advertising_identifier_ELTPARAGRAPHE000056"></a>

Users can reset their advertising identifier in the device settings: 

- From iOS 14 onwards: 

	- Go to Settings and select "Privacy".

	- Scroll down and select "Apple Advertising".

	- Disable "Personalized Ads".




- Before iOS 14: 

	- Go to Settings and select "Privacy".

	- Select "Advertising" and tap "Reset Advertising Identifier...".







<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Business / UI classification:
Neutral code
