
## Client application: Running procedures on a server of.Net services 
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000117"></a>
Several DotNet functions are available in WINDEV. These functions allow you to manage the execution of procedures on a server of .Net XML Web services from your WINDEV applications.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Principle
<a name="principle_ELTTEXTE000141"></a>
The parameters required to run a procedure are specified in the documentation of the server of .Net XML Web services.

To run a procedure on a server of .Net XML Web services:

1. Initialize the structure of parameters for the procedure to run ([see the .Net structure](../WDLang3/3031011.md)).
	Remark: To perform additional checks on the server of.Net XML Web services, add a procedure header ([DotNetAddHeader](../WDLang3/3031009.md)).

2. Run the procedure ([DotNetRun](../WDLang3/3031016.md) or [DotNetRunXML](../WDLang3/3031012.md)). The following operations are automatically performed:

	- connecting the current computer and the server of .Net XML Web services.

	- sending procedure parameters to the server of .Net XML Web services.

	- checking the header if necessary.

	- running the procedure.

	- returning the procedure result or error to the current computer.




3. Check the procedure result.




The result of [DotNetRun](../WDLang3/3031016.md) or [DotNetRunXML](../WDLang3/3031012.md) is used to find out whether the connection was successfully established.

If the connection was not established, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) to find out the cause of the error. 

If the connection was established, check the result of [DotNetGetResult](../WDLang3/3031005.md):

- if the result is not an empty string (""), the procedure was successfully run.

- if the result is an empty string (""), the procedure was not run and/or an error was returned. To find out the procedure error, use [DotNetError](../WDLang3/3031004.md).





