
## LDAPDeleteAttribute (Function)

***In french: LDAPSupprimeAttribut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Deletes an attribute as well as its values.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
LDAPStartModify("SessionName")
LDAPDeleteAttribute("SessionName", "AttributeName")
LDAPValidateModify("SessionName", "DN")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = LDAPDeleteAttribute(<LDAP session> , <Attribute name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the deletion was performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns more details about the error. 


The deletion will be performed during the call to [LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md).

**`<LDAP session>: (Character string)`**

Name of LDAP session used.

**`<Attribute name>: (Character string)`**

Name of attribute to delete.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Modifying an existing object on an LDAP server
<a name="modifying_existing_object_ldap_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000051"></a>

To modify an existing object in an LDAP server, you must define the different modifications to perform.

To optimize the modification speed of objects, the modifications are defined locally: a single communication is established with the server when validating the modification. The steps are:

1. Start modification ([LDAPStartModify](../WDLang3/3032112.md))

2. Modification operations:

	- Add attributes and their values [LDAPAddAttribute](../WDLang3/3032110.md)).

	- Delete attributes (**LDAPDeleteAttribute**) or their values ([LDAPDeleteAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032116.md)).

	- Replace values of an attribute ([LDAPReplaceAttribute](../WDLang3/3032113.md) or [LDAPReplaceAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032119.md))

	- Rename attributes ([LDAPRenameAttribute](../WDLang3/3032120.md))




3. Validate the modifications on the server ([LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md)). The modifications are performed on the server according to the order used in the WLanguage code.




**Caution**: These operations being performed locally then on the server, the logical order of the modifications must be respected (you cannot for example modify an attribute that was already deleted by the previous line of code).  

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
