
## LDAPReplaceAttribute (Function)

***In french: LDAPRemplaceAttribut***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Replaces all the values of an attribute by a specific value.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Modifies a specific value of an attribute 
// (the read operation was performed on the server beforehand)
// The existing values are found in sValue1, sValue2 and sValue3
// sValue2 must be replaced with sNewValue
LDAPStartModify("SessionName")
LDAPReplaceAttribute("SessionName", "AttributeName", sNewValue)
LDAPAddAttribute("SessionName", "AttributeName", sValue1)
LDAPAddAttribute("SessionName", "AttributeName", sValue3)
LDAPValidateModify("SessionName", "DN")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = LDAPReplaceAttribute(<LDAP session> , <Attribute name> , <Attribute value>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the modification was performed,

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise. [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) returns more details about the error. The modification will be performed during the call to [LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md).




**`<LDAP session>: (Character string)`**

Name of LDAP session used.

**`<Attribute name>: (Character string)`**

Name of attribute to use.

**`<Attribute value>: (ANSI character string)`**

New attribute value.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Differences between LDAPReplaceAttribute and LDAPReplaceAttributeValue
<a name="differences_between_docparampagetitleshort_and_ldapreplaceattributevalue_ELTPARAGRAPHE000051"></a>

**LDAPReplaceAttribute** is used to replace all the values of an attribute by a single value. A multi-valued attribute (several values for this attribute) will become a single-valued attribute (a single value for this attribute).

[LDAPReplaceAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032119.md) is used to replace a specific value of an attribute by a new value. A multi-valued attribute remains a multi-valued attribute.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>




### Modifying an existing object on an LDAP server
<a name="modifying_existing_object_ldap_server_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

To modify an existing object in an LDAP server, you must define the different modifications to perform.

To optimize the modification speed of objects, the modifications are defined locally: a single communication is established with the server when validating the modification. The steps are:

1. Start modification ([LDAPStartModify](../WDLang3/3032112.md)).

2. Modification operations:

	- Add attributes and their values [LDAPAddAttribute](../WDLang3/3032110.md)).

	- Delete attributes ([LDAPDeleteAttribute](../WDLang3/3032115.md)) or their values ([LDAPDeleteAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032116.md)).

	- Replace values of an attribute (LDAPReplaceAttribute or [LDAPReplaceAttributeValue](../WDLang3/3032119.md))

	- Rename attributes ([LDAPRenameAttribute](../WDLang3/3032120.md))




3. Validate the modifications on the server ([LDAPValidateModify](../WDLang3/3032117.md)). The modifications are performed on the server according to the order used in the WLanguage code.




**Caution**: These operations being performed locally then on the server, the logical order of the modifications must be respected (you cannot for example modify an attribute that was already deleted by the previous line of code).  

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
