
## FaxConnect (Function)

***In french: FaxConnecte***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Establishes a connection to a fax server.

**Remark**: This function can only be used with Windows 2000, XP or later, or on a server with Windows 2000, XP or later. In Windows Vista, the management of faxes is available in Windows Vista Professional Edition and Windows Vista Ultimate Edition.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
ConnectID is int
ConnectID = FaxConnect()
IF ConnectID = 0 THEN 
	Error("The connection to the fax server failed." + ...
		"Check whether it has been started", ...
		ErrorInfo(errSystemMessage))
END
...
FaxDisconnect(ConnectID)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = FaxConnect([<Fax server name>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Connection identifier,

- 0 if an error occurs. The corresponding error message is returned by [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Fax server name>: (Optional character string)`**

Name of the fax server. If this parameter is not specified, the fax server corresponds to the current computer. 
Caution: the fax server must be started and configured in outgoing mode. For more details, see [Sending faxes](../WDLang3/3037002.md).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks




### Using a fax server installed on a computer other than the current computer
<a name="using_fax_server_installed_computer_other_than_the_current_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000045"></a>

You have the ability to use a fax server installed on a computer other than the current computer. In this case, the computer where the fax server is installed must be running Windows Server 2003. The fax server must be shared. Then, the name of fax server must be specified in **FaxConnect**.

The computer from which the faxes will be sent must be equipped with a local fax server.

For example, if the fax server is installed on the "FaxServer1" computer, use the following code:


```wl
ConnectID is int
ConnectID = FaxConnect("FaxServer1")
```






<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
