


## FaxSend (Function)

***In french: FaxEnvoie***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Sends a fax according to the connection that was established beforehand ([FaxConnect](../WDLang3/3037005.md)).

**Remark**: This function can be used in Windows 2000, XP or later. In Windows Vista (and later), the management of faxes is available with Windows Professional et Windows Integral Edition.
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
ConnectID is int
ConnectID = FaxConnect()
...
ResSendFax is boolean
ResSendFax = FaxSend(ConnectID, "MyFax", "Message.txt", "0102030405")
...
FaxDisconnect(ConnectID)
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = FaxSend(<Connection identifier> , <Fax name> , <Content file of fax> , <Fax number> [, <Name of cover file> [, <WLanguage procedure>]])`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the fax was sent, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> if an error occurred (in most cases, this error is caused by a configuration problem). To get the details of the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md).




**`<Connection identifier>: (Integer)`**

Connection identifier, returned by [FaxConnect](../WDLang3/3037005.md).

**`<Fax name>: (Character string)`**

Name used to identify the outgoing fax. The status of the outgoing fax is returned by [FaxStatus](../WDLang3/3037001.md).

**`<Content file of fax>: (Character string)`**

Name and path of the file containing the text of the fax (a UNC path can be used). All the types of files that have a "Print" option in their popup menu in the explorer can be faxed.

**Caution**: Depending on the type of file to fax, the drivers and the applications required to manage this type of file must be installed on the computer. For example, to send a PDF file, the drivers required to manage the PDF format must be installed on the computer. 

**`<Fax number>: (Character string)`**

Fax number of the recipient. Caution: if a specific area code or country code is required, it must specified.

**`<Name of cover file>: (Optional character string)`**

Name and path of the file containing the cover page of the fax. This file must use the format of cover pages (.cov). This file can also be created by the fax manager of Windows. For more details, see [Sending faxes](../WDLang3/3037002.md).

**`<WLanguage procedure>: (Optional procedure name)`**

Name of the WLanguage procedure ("callback") called whenever the status of the outgoing fax changes. This procedure is used to handle the fax.
This procedure has the following format: 

```txt
PROCEDURE <Procedure name>(<Fax name>, <Fax status>)
```

The parameters of this procedure are optional.
There is no need to pass parameters to this procedure. These parameters are automatically filled for each outgoing fax.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### WLanguage procedure
<a name="wlanguage_procedure_ELTPARAGRAPHE000076"></a>

Whenever the status of the outgoing fax changes, **FaxSend** automatically calls the &lt;WLanguage procedure>. This procedure is a global or local procedure of WINDEV or WEBDEV.

To create this procedure:

1. Create a global procedure in the code editor: on the "Code" tab, in the "Procedures" group, expand "New" and select "New global procedure".

2. Fill the declaration of the procedure as follows: 
	
	```txt
	PROCEDURE <Procedure name> (<Fax name>, <Fax status>)
	```


	- &lt;Fax name&gt; is the name of the fax used. This name was defined with **FaxSend**.

	- &lt;Fax status&gt; is one of the constants for fax status (see [FaxStatus](../WDLang3/3037001.md)).







**Caution**: This procedure must not contain any call to the debugger (no breakpoint, no STOP keyword, no auto-stop expression, etc.).

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
