
## FTPSize (Function)

***In french: FTPTaille***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Returns the size (in bytes) of a file found on an FTP server (File Transfer Protocol).


<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example
<a class="notetitle" target="_blank" href="$DOC$=1000003040007&name=ftpsize_function&product=WD">See additional examples</a>

```wl
// Find out the size of "/Documents/File.Doc" file 
// found on the FTP server
ResSize = FTPSize(7, "/Documents/File.DOC")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

### Finding out the size of last file that was consulted

`<Result> = FTPSize()`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Size (in bytes) of the last file consulted via one of the following FTP functions: [FTPAttribute](../WDLang3/3040006.md), [FTPDate](../WDLang3/3040015.md), [FTPTime](../WDLang3/3040013.md), [FTPListFile](../WDLang3/3040018.md), [FTPGet](../WDLang3/3040002.md).

- -1 if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.


**Remark: Unlike the syntax 2, no request is sent to the server. Therefore, this syntax is recommended whenever possible.**  


<a name="SYNTAX2"></a>

### Finding out the size of specified file

`<Result> = FTPSize(<Connection identifier> , <File name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- Size (in bytes) of specified file,

- -1 if an error occurred. To get more details on the error, use [ErrorInfo](../WDLang1/3013008.md) with the *errMessage* constant.




**`<Connection identifier>: (Integer)`**

Connection identifier, returned by [FTPConnect](../WDLang3/3040016.md).



**`<File name>: (Character string)`**

Name and full (or relative) path of the file be accessed. The different path sections are separated by "slashes" ("/").  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Timeout
<a name="timeout_ELTPARAGRAPHE000097"></a>

By default, all the FTP functions fail if the FTP server does not respond within 20 seconds. This timeout can be modified with [FTPConnect](../WDLang3/3040016.md) when connecting to the FTP server.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>




### Rights of users
<a name="rights_users_ELTPARAGRAPHE000126"></a>

Only a user who has read rights on the FTP server can get information about the files or the directories found on an FTP server. In most cases, the read rights are granted to the "anonymous" users.
<a name="NOTE0_4"></a>




### Relative and absolute path
<a name="relative_and_absolute_path_ELTPARAGRAPHE000134"></a>

The notions of relative path and absolute path are very important in an FTP application.

- A path starting with a slash is considered as being an **absolute path**: it is the path in relation to the root of the FTP server (parameter specific to the server).
	ex: /ad/user/JULIA

- A path not starting with a slash is considered as being a **relative path**, which means a path given in relation to the current directory. This current directory can be returned or modified by [FTPCurrentDir](../WDLang3/3040003.md).


When connecting to an FTP site, the initial directory (the "home directory" of the user) is not necessarily found at the root of the FTP server. Therefore, we recommend that you use relative paths.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
