


## grSaveEMF (Function)

***In french: grSauveEMF***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Saves a chart that was drawn beforehand in a file in EMF format. 
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Saves the chart named "CHART_MyChart" in the "C:\Charts\Chart.EMF" file
grSaveEMF(CHART_MyChart, "C:\Charts\Chart.EMF")
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = grSaveEMF(<Chart name> , <EMF file name>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the chart was saved, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Chart name>: (Control name or character string)`**

Name of the chart to be used. This name corresponds to:

- the chart name defined through programming with [grCreate](../WDLang3/3042005.md).

- the name of the Chart control in the window, page or report editor.




**`<EMF file name>: (Character string)`**

Name and full path of the EMF file to create. The file extension is mandatory. This EMF file is created when **grSaveEMF** is called. The file is overwritten and re-created if it already existed.  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Saving a chart
<a name="saving_chart_ELTPARAGRAPHE000071"></a>

- To save a chart, the chart must have been drawn beforehand ([grDraw](../WDLang3/3042026.md)). The modifications performed since the last call to [grDraw](../WDLang3/3042026.md) will be ignored.

- The default size of the image is set to 639 x 479. These dimensions are taken into account if the chart was never drawn or if it is not visible. 

- If the chart was created by [grCreate](../WDLang3/3042005.md), the dimensions can be specified with [grWndSize](../WDLang3/3042016.md).



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Backup in EMF format
<a name="backup_emf_format_ELTPARAGRAPHE000096"></a>

- This file can be read by a tool that recognizes the EMF format.

- The size of the file is identical to the size of the destination (size of window size, control or file).

- We recommend that you preview the chart before it is saved in a file.



<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Differences between grDestinationEMF and grSaveEMF
<a name="differences_between_grdestinationemf_and_docparampagetitleshort_ELTPARAGRAPHE000107"></a>

- [grDestinationEMF](../WDLang3/3042017.md) is used to define the destination for the next drawing of the chart. When [grDraw](../WDLang3/3042026.md) is used, the chart will be drawn in the specified file and all the changes made since the chart was last drawn will be taken into account.

- **grSaveEMF** is used to save the chart in a file in EMF format. The image saved corresponds to the chart during the last call to [grDraw](../WDLang3/3042026.md). The changes made to the chart since [grDraw](../WDLang3/3042026.md) was last called will be ignored.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280grf.dll
