
## Managing the remote accesses
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000119"></a>
The remote accesses are used to create a temporary network connection.

WINDEV allows you to easily manage the remote accesses by proposing several functions used to open, close and list these remote accesses.

Some "standard" examples for using the remote accesses:

- Using a modem

- Using a VPN (Virtual Private Network)

- ...




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Functions for managing remote accesses
<a name="functions_for_managing_remote_accesses_ELTTEXTE000143"></a>
The following WLanguage functions are used to manage remote accesses:



|   |   |
| --- | --- |
| [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md) | Closes the line that was opened by [NetOpenRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056026.md). |
| [NetInfoRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056028.md) | Returns information about the status of a connection as well as the statistics about this connection. |
| [NetListRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056027.md) | Returns the list of available remote accesses. |
| [NetOpenRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056026.md) | Establishes a remote connection. |





<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Specific features
<a name="specific_features_ELTTEXTE000200"></a>


### Connection for the remote network access
<a name="connection_for_the_remote_network_access_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

A connection for remote network access is created in the Windows control panel. The following information is required to create the connection:

- the caption of the connection (used by [NetOpenRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056026.md)), 

- the phone number to dial, 

- the username, 

- the modem, the protocol, etc.


This information is supplied by the provider.

When the connection is run via a double click performed on the corresponding icon, you have the ability to specify a password for this connection. This password can be stored in order to be used whenever this connection is started.
<a name="NOTE3_2"></a>


### Managing the automatic closing of a remote access
<a name="managing_the_automatic_closing_remote_access_ELTPARAGRAPHE000053"></a>

[NetOpenRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056026.md) is used to specify whether the remote access must be automatically closed when closing the application.

If the automatic closing is requested, the connection will be automatically closed at the end of the application or during the call to [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md) (without parameter). In this case, the last connection opened by [NetOpenRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056026.md) will be closed.

If the automatic closing is not requested, the connection will not be closed at the end of the application. This option allows you to create an application used to open a connection.
In this case, the connection will not be closed by [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md) (without parameter). To close this connection, the access name must be passed in parameter.


