


## NetOpenRemoteAccess (Function)

***In french: NetOuvreAccèsDistant***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Establishes a remote connection. This function can be used to handle the emails via the POP3 protocol on the remote server.

**Remark**: Then, the remote connection can be closed by [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md).
<a name="Example1"></a>
<a name="sample_code"></a>

## Example


```wl
// Starts the Internet connection on a PC
// The name of the connection to use is the one defined in the list of 
// connections of the PC (control panel).
Report is int = NetOpenRemoteAccess("Connection_LiveBox")
IF Report = 0 THEN
	...
	NetCloseRemoteAccess()
ELSE
	Error("Error during the connection", NetMsgError(Report))
END
```
<a name="Example2"></a>

```wl
// Open the connection on a Smartphone
sConnectionName is string 
nCntReturn is int
// The name of the connection is given by the provider
sConnectionName = "Bouygues Internet"
// Open the connection
nCntReturn = NetOpenRemoteAccess(sConnectionName) 
IF nCntReturn = 0 THEN
	// Requested process
	// ...
	NetCloseRemoteAccess(sConnectionName)
ELSE
	Error("Error during the connection:", NetMsgError(nCntReturn))
END
```

<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = NetOpenRemoteAccess(<Access name> [, <Password>] [, <Automatic closing>])`
---

**`<Result>: (Integer)`**



- 0 if the connection was established,

- an error code otherwise. This error code can be used with [NetMsgError](../WDLang3/3056019.md) to get the error details and the corresponding message.




**`<Access name>: (Character string)`**

Name of the "Remote network access" connection defined in Windows. The list of remote accesses installed on a computer is returned by [NetListRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056027.md).
If the connection is already enabled (if it was opened manually or by another application), it is automatically retrieved.

**`<Password>: (Optional character string)`**

Password associated with the connection.

**`<Automatic closing>: (Optional boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> (default value): the connection will be automatically closed at the end of application or during the call to [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md) without parameter (valid for the last connection opened by **NetOpenRemoteAccess**).

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u>: the connection is not closed when the application is closed. Used, for example, to create an application that opens a connection. Similarly, [NetCloseRemoteAccess](../WDLang3/3056021.md) without parameter will not close the connection. To close this connection, the access name must be passed as parameter.






<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Connection for the remote network access
<a name="connection_for_the_remote_network_access_ELTPARAGRAPHE000067"></a>

A connection for remote network access is created in the Windows control panel. The following information is required to create the connection:

- the caption of the connection (used by **NetOpenRemoteAccess**),

- the phone number to dial, 

- the username, 

- the modem, the protocol, etc.




This information is supplied by the provider.

When the connection is run via a double click performed on the corresponding icon, you have the ability to specify a password for this connection. This password can be stored in order to be used whenever this connection is started.
<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Miscellaneous
<a name="miscellaneous_ELTPARAGRAPHE000085"></a>

- Caution: The connection to a remote network can take quite a long time. The execution of the current application is locked during the entire duration of the connection.

- A single connection can be opened at a given time.

- We recommend that you check whether the connection operates properly in Windows before running **NetOpenRemoteAccess**.




<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
