


## tapiCompleteTransfer (Function)

***In french: telExécuteTransfert***



<a name="XUse"></a>
<a name="Use"></a>
<a name="description"></a>
Performs a call transfer (with ability to retrieve the call).
<a name="XSYNTAX"></a>
<a name="SYNTAX1"></a>

## Syntax

`<Result> = tapiCompleteTransfer(<Identifier of call to transfer> , <Identifier of target call>)`
---

**`<Result>: (Boolean)`**



- <u><u><u><u>True</u></u></u></u> if the call transfer is performed, 

- <u><u><u><u>False</u></u></u></u> otherwise.




**`<Identifier of call to transfer>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of the call that will be transferred. This identifier is defined in the WLanguage procedure called by [tapiListen](../WDLang3/3076029.md).

**`<Identifier of target call>: (Integer)`**

Identifier of the call toward which the transfer must be performed. This identifier is defined in the WLanguage procedure called by [tapiListen](../WDLang3/3076029.md).  



<a name="NOTE0"></a>
<a name="NOTE0_1"></a>

## Remarks


### Operating mode of call transfer
<a name="operating_mode_call_transfer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000042"></a>

During a call transfer, the caller is informed that a transfer will be performed then the person dials the number toward which the transfer will be performed. If the transfer is accepted, the person validates the transfer.

The principle is the same through programming:

1. A call is in progress. The identifier of this call is &lt;Identifier of call to transfer&gt;.

2. Dial the number of the person to whom the call will be transferred ([tapiLineDial](../WDLang3/3076012.md)). The identifier of this call is &lt;Identifier of target call&gt;. The call to transfer is automatically put on hold.

3. Case 1: The transfer is accepted: simply use **tapiCompleteTransfer**.

4. Case 2: The transfer is refused. Simply end the target call ([tapiHangUp](../WDLang3/3076030.md)). The initial communication is automatically restored.



<a name="NOTE0_2"></a>


### Direct transfer
<a name="direct_transfer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000064"></a>

You can also transfer a call without worrying about the presence of the target correspondent. Simply use [tapiBlindTransfer](../WDLang3/3076011.md).
<a name="NOTE0_3"></a>


### Required configuration
<a name="required_configuration_ELTPARAGRAPHE000074"></a>

Telephony functions use TAPI 2.0 technology and/or TAPI 3.1 technology. These technologies can be used on all systems.

Caution: the call transfer is not available for all the devices. The call transfer is taken into account for a PABX.

<a name="XComponent"></a>

## Component:
wd280com.dll
