
## Installing a SOAP server with Netscape iPlanet 4.1
			






	<B><B>Warning</B></B>

	From version <B><B>20</B></B>, this feature is not available anymore. For more details, see [Importing/Consuming Webservices](../WDLang3/3086001.md)



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Installing a SOAP server with Netscape iPlanet 4.1
<a name="installing_soap_server_with_netscape_iplanet_41_ELTTEXTE000152"></a>


### To install a SOAP server with Netscape iPlanet 4.1 (the Netscape iPlanet 4.1 server must be installed on the computer):
<a name="install_soap_server_with_netscape_iplanet_41_the_netscape_iplanet_41_server_must_installed_the_computer_ELTPARAGRAPHE000027"></a>

**1.** To find the configuration files:

- Select the setup directory of iPlanet (C:\\Netscape\\Server4 by default).

- Select the subdirectory corresponding to the server to configure. The name of the server corresponds to "https-&lt;user name>".

- Select the "config" sub-directory.




**2**. Open the "mime.types" file with WordPad.

CAUTION: if this file is opened by NotePad.EXE, the file format may be corrupted during the backup.

**3.** Add the following line at the end of the file and save (WordPad tells you that the layout will be lost when saving; answer "Yes"):

```txt
type=application/soap exts=soap
```


**Remark**: Use another extension if the "soap" extension is already associated with a module on your server. In this case, this new extension must be specified in the functions used to specify the URL of the SOAP server (&lt;URL of SOAP server&gt; in [SOAPRun](../WDLang3/3069013.md), for example).

**4.** Open the obj.conf file.

**5.** Find the "&lt;Object name=default&gt;" line. Insert before this line:

- The following lines for the tests from your computer:



```txt
Init fn=load-modules shlib="<Setup Directory of WINDEV 15>/Data/wdxxxsns.dll" \
funcs="WinDevHandler,ModuleExit,ModuleInit"
Init fn="ModuleInit"
```




- The following lines to install the final SOAP server:



```txt
Init fn=load-modules shlib="<DLL Location>/wdxxxsns.dll" \
funcs="WinDevHandler,ModuleExit,ModuleInit"
Init fn="ModuleInit"
```


Caution: The paths have the following format "d:/my directory/my file.dll". Use quotes and '/' characters (instead of '\\').

**6.** Find the first line that starts with "Service". Insert before this line:

```txt
Service method=(POST) type=application/soap fn=WinDevHandler
```


**7.** Save the file.

**8.** To install a standard SOAP server, restart your server. The server is now installed.

Remark: WDxxxsns.dll is NSAPI-compatible.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Installing a Webservice
<a name="installing_webservice_ELTTEXTE000176"></a>


### If you want to install a Webservice
<a name="you_want_install_webservice_ELTPARAGRAPHE000084"></a>

**9.** Open the "webpub.conf" file and find the "NS-doc-root" keyword.

**10.** Copy the following elements into the specified directory after the "NS-doc-root" keyword:

- The XML file containing the Webservice description.

- The HTML pages presenting the Webservice.




**To access this XML file**, use the following command line:

"http://&lt;Name or IP Address of Soap Server&gt;/&lt;Name of XML File&gt;.XML"

**To run the test this Webservice**, use the following command line:

"http://&lt;NAme or IP Address of Soap Server&gt;/index.htm"

**Remark**: This XML file can also be copied into another directory. For more details, see the documentation about the HTTP server used.

**11.** Restart your server. The Webservice is now installed on the SOAP server.

Remark: WDxxxsns.dll is NSAPI-compatible.


