
## Android Control Center
			

<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000197"></a>
Do you know where to find your application log files? 
You may need to record a video of a running app on your phone, etc. 
The Android Control Center helps you with these tasks, and much more. 


The Android Control Center allows you to easily manage your Android devices during the development phase. 
These are some of the functionalities you will find in the Android Control Center: 

- View general information of the device: version, resolution, DPI, processor, etc. 

- View system logs (logcat), 

- View the debug trace for WINDEV Mobile applications: trace, assert, error, etc.

- Screenshot,

- Record videos of running apps, 

- Manage applications in the device: list, search, app info, install, uninstall, switch to device owner mode, etc.

- Intuitive and responsive file explorer, 

- ... 




<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Starting the Android Control Center
<a name="starting_the_android_control_center_ELTTEXTE000221"></a>


### Prerequisite
<a name="prerequisite_ELTPARAGRAPHE000034"></a>

Before starting the Android Control Center: 

1. Connect the Android device to the development computer. 

2. Make sure that the "USB debugging" mode is enabled in the mobile device settings (developer options must also be enabled). 




Remarks: 

- If multiple mobile devices are used, USB debugging must be enabled on each mobile device.

- If USB debugging is enabled, an authorization is requested when the device is connected to the development computer (notice the "Always allow from this computer" option). 

- If the authorization is not permanently granted, it will be requested each time the phone is disconnected / reconnected. 

- If the authorization request is cancelled, the "USB debugging" option will be active on the phone, but it won't be possible to debug from the computer.





### Starting the Control Center
<a name="starting_the_control_center_ELTPARAGRAPHE000049"></a>

To start the Android Control Center:

- from WINDEV Mobile: on the "Tools" tab, in the "Mobile tools" group, click "CCAndroid".

- by directly executing the "CCAndroid.EXE" program, located in the "Programs" subdirectory of the WINDEV Mobile installation directory.




At launch, the Android Control Center detects the and shows the details of the connected device.

Remark: If multiple devices are connected, a list will appear, allowing you to select the desired device. 
<a name="NOTE2_2"></a>


### Use conditions
<a name="use_conditions_ELTPARAGRAPHE000075"></a>

The Android Control Center is not a redistributable tool. The Android Control Center cannot be installed with the applications developed with WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile.

To use the Android Control Center, WINDEV, WEBDEV or WINDEV Mobile must necessarily be installed on the current computer.

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Features
<a name="features_ELTTEXTE000257"></a>
The Android Control Center shows information about the selected device in several tabs: 

- **"Details" tab**: This tab displays information about the current Android device: manufacturer, model, serial number, API level, etc.
	Remark: On some devices, the list of unoptimized/optimized applications does not update unless you restart the device.

- **"Trace" tab**: This tab allows you to see the traces of Android applications created with WINDEV Mobile. To see the traces of your application: 

	1. Open the Android project in WINDEV Mobile. 

	2. Start your application in test mode on the device connected to the development computer. 

	3. Use the application on the device. 

	4. In the "Trace" tab of the Android Control Center, you can view: 

		- the trace of your application in **simple mode**: all messages displayed via [Trace](../WDLang1/3013050.md) will appear in the "Trace" tab of the Android Control Center. 
						This mode corresponds to the information displayed in the trace window of a test (GO) via the simulator. 

		- the trace of your application in **detailed mode**: This mode shows: 

			- all messages displayed via [Trace](../WDLang1/3013050.md). These messages will appear in the "Trace" tab of the Android Control Center.

			- the exceptions, errors and assertions encountered. 


 This mode corresponds to the information displayed in the "Debugger trace" tab in a test (GO) via the simulator. 

- **"Logcat" tab**: This tab displays all the log files on the Android device, sorted by priority. It is possible to search the messages. 
	This tab can be used to find the causes of problems in some Android applications.
	Remark: The lowest priorities can correspond to the use of WLanguage functions: 

	- Info priority: [Trace](../WDLang1/3013050.md) function. 

	- Debug priority: [dbgStandardOutput](../WDLang1/3014020.md) function. 

	- Assert priority: [dbgAssertion](../WDLang1/3014022.md) function.

	- Error priority: [ErrorThrow](../WDLang1/3034011.md) function.

	- Fatal priority: [ExceptionThrow](../WDLang1/3034005.md) function. 




- **"Capture" tab**: This tab allows you to capture an image or record a video (3 minutes maximum) of the device screen. This image (or video) can be saved on the development computer. In the case of a screenshot, the image can be edited and modified. 

- **"Applications" tab**: This tab allows you to view a list of applications installed and in use on the Android device. You can: 

	- View the details of the selected application: name, version, minimum sdk version, application permissions, etc.

	- Install an application on the device: Simply select the corresponding APK file in the development computer. 

	- Uninstall an application. 

	- Run the selected application (if the corresponding APK file is available). 

	- Start the selected application by passing parameters to it (if the corresponding APK file is available).

	- Stop the selected application. 

	- Open the application directory in the "Explorer" tab. This option is only available for debuggable applications.  




- **"Explorer" tab**: This tab displays the different folders of the device as a file explorer. 





