
## Importing/Exporting a dictionary
			



<a name="NOTE1"></a>
<a name="NOTE1_1"></a>


## Overview
<a name="overview_ELTTEXTE000136"></a>
WDTRAD allows you to import and export a dictionary.

**Reminder**: A dictionary can contain the same resource translated into several languages. For example, the expression "Close the application" can be translated into French, Spanish and German in the same dictionary.

<a name="NOTE2"></a>
<a name="NOTE2_1"></a>


## Importing the dictionary
<a name="importing_the_dictionary_ELTTEXTE000160"></a>
WDTRAD allows you to import: 

- an existing dictionary, corresponding to an earlier version of WDTRAD (before version 17). When starting WDTRAD, this option is automatically proposed if a dictionary coming from an earlier version is found on the computer. 

- a translation memory generated: 

	- by a translation software (TMX files). 

	- by WDTRAD (TMX files). 




- a translation performed with WDTRAD (TXT or FIC files). 

- an existing WDTRAD dictionary (version 18 to 28). 

- a local dictionary in a dictionary found on a PCSCloud platform.




This feature allows you to automatically insert the existing translations into the dictionary handled by WDTRAD.

**To import an existing dictionary:**

1. In WDTRAD, select "File .. Translation memory .. Import an earlier version of a WDTRAD dictionary". 

2. Select the ".FIC" file corresponding to the dictionary to import. Validate. 

3. The new resources are automatically inserted into the dictionary handled by WDTRAD.
	Identical resources are automatically overwritten.




**To import a translation memory:**

1. In WDTRAD, select "File .. Translation memory .. Import into the dictionary". 

2. Select: 

	- the ".TMX" file corresponding to the translation memory to import. 

	- the ".TXT" or "FIC" file corresponding to the already translated files whose resources must be imported. 

	- the "DICT.FIC" file corresponding to an existing WDTRAD dictionary (version 18 to 28). 




3. The new resources are automatically inserted into the dictionary handled by WDTRAD.
	Identical resources are automatically overwritten.




**To import a local dictionary into a PCSCloud dictionary:**

1. In WDTRAD, connect to a PCSCloud dictionary. 

2. Select "File .. Translation memory .. Import into the dictionary". 

3. Select the "WDTRAD dictionary (DICT.FIC)" corresponding to the dictionary to import. Validate. 

4. The new resources are automatically inserted into the PCSCloud dictionary.
	Identical resources are automatically overwritten.


Remark: During the first connection to a PCSCloud dictionary, if this dictionary is empty, the import of a local dictionary is automatically proposed. 

<a name="NOTE3"></a>
<a name="NOTE3_1"></a>


## Exporting the dictionary
<a name="exporting_the_dictionary_ELTTEXTE000184"></a>
WDTRAD allows you to export the resources found in the dictionary. When exporting a dictionary, a translation memory file (".TMX" file) is created. This file is created in the "Dictionary" subdirectory of the WDTRAD setup directory. 

**To export the dictionary handled by WDTRAD,** select "File .. Translation memory .. Export the dictionary".


